COMMONS DEBATES March 29, 1871 HOUSE OF COMMONS Wednesday, March 29, 1871 The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 o’clock. Prayers AFTER ROUTINE NEW MEMBER Mr. SMITH (Selkirk), the newly elected member for Selkirk,Manitoba, was introduced by Hon. Sir George-É. Cartier and Mr. Simpson, and took his seat immediately behind Hon. Mr. Tupper’s place. Mr. MACKENZIE called attention to the fact that the hon. member who had just taken his seat did so under an Act, the confirmation of which was now being sought for at the hands of the Imperial Parliament, and as doubts existed as to the propriety of any member taking his seat under that Act, he thought that, following a precedent set by Government themselves lately, the matter should be referred to a Committee. This case seemed to demand the same treatment as the Government had followed lately itself. The Opposition divested themselves of all responsibility after having given this notification. Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said that the hon. member who had just been introduced had taken his seat under an Act of this House which had met with the sanction of the Imperial Government, and which had not been disallowed or declared null by any legal authority. Consequently if it was binding upon anybody it was on this House, which had passed the Act. But, at the same time, he might add, if any hon. member should raise a question of privilege with regard to the assumption of a seat in this House by the hon. member for Selkirk, the Government would be ready to discharge their duty and advise the House with regard to the law as it was to be applied in the present case. Until the present law should be set aside the Government could not act otherwise than they had done.  The subject was dropped. * * * RETURNS NOT MADE Mr. MACKENZIE asked why the Government had not brought down a statement of the allowances granted under the Superannuation Act of last session. They should also have furnished a statement respecting confidential printing. Neither of these statements had yet been presented. Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said he would inquire the cause of the delay, and let the House know why the law had not yet been complied with. * * * INTERNAL ECONOMY Mr. MACKENZIE called attention to the fact that no statement of the appointments made under the commission for the internal economy of the House had been laid before the House. The SPEAKER said the information would be brought down. * * * MANITOBA CONFIRMATORY ACT Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that tomorrow the House go into committee to consider certain resolutions for an address to Her Majesty on the subject of the draft of a bill intended for submission to the Imperial Parliament for the purpose of removing doubts which may have been entertained respecting the powers of the Parliament of Canada to establish provinces in the territories admitted, or which may be hereafter admitted, into the Dominion of Canada, and to provide for the representation of such provinces in the said Parliament, and vesting such powers in the said Parliament.—Carried. * * * ROCKWOOD ASYLUM Hon. Mr. MORRIS moved that tomorrow the House go into committee to consider a resolution to empower the Government to treat with the Province of Ontario for the lease or sale of Rockwood Asylum to that Province, any such lease or sale to be subject to the approval of Parliament.—Carried. * * * BRITISH COLUMBIA DEBATE Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said the debate on the British Columbia resolutions would be resumed after recess this evening. 