COMMONS DEBATES February 15, 1871 HOUSE OF COMMONS Wednesday, February 15, 1871 The SPEAKER took the chair at 3.00 p.m. Prayers A MESSAGE was brought by René Kimber, Esquire, Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod:— The SPEAKER,  His Excellency, the Governor General desires the immediate attendance of this Honorable House in the Senate Chamber. Accordingly, Mr. Speaker, with the House, went to the Senate Chamber:—And being returned: Mr. Speaker informed the House, that during the Recess, he had received the following notifications of vacancies which had occurred in the representation of the electoral districts of Missisquoi, Quebec (City) East, Cumberland, (Nova Scotia) Bellechasse, Saint-Hyacinthe, Colchester, (N.S.), Richelieu and Restigouche; and that he had issued his Warrants to the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery to make out new Writs for the Election of Members to serve in this present Parliament for the said Electoral Districts:  Adolphe Tourangeau, Esquire, Member for the Electoral District of Quebec East; Louis Delorme, Esquire, Member for the Electoral District of Saint-Hyacinthe; George Moffatt, Esquire, Member for the Electoral District of Restigouche (New Brunswick); Leverett de Veber Chipman, Esquire, Member for the Electoral District of Kings; Georges Isidore Barthe, Esquire, Member for the Electoral District of Richelieu; and the Honorable Charles Tupper, C.B., Member for the Electoral District of Cumberland, having previously taken the Oath, according to Law, and subscribed before the Commissioners the Roll containing the same, took their seats in the House. Ordered, That the Hon. Sir John A. Macdonald have leave to bring in a Bill respecting the administration of Oaths of Office. He accordingly presented the said Bill to the House, and the same was received and read the first time. Mr. Speaker reported, That when the House did attend His Excellency the Governor General this day, in the Senate Chamber, His Excellency was pleased to make a Speech to both Houses of Parliament, of which Mr. Speaker said he had, to prevent mistakes, obtained a copy which he read to the House, as followeth:— Honorable Gentlemen of the Senate, Gentlemen of the House of Commons,— I have much satisfaction in meeting you at this, the usual and most convenient season of the year, and under the present auspicious circumstances of the Country.  The hope I was sanguine enough to express at the close of the last session that no further attempt would be made to disturb our frontier, was doomed to early disappointment. The Session had scarcely closed when lawless bands assembled within the United States in great numbers, and renewed the menace of invasion. They ventured to cross the border at two points, but were promptly met and repelled. So complete and humiliating was the repulse, that the invaders lost heart and hope, threw away quantities of arms, and fell back to encumber the villages in their rear, with their starving and demoralized masses. Our Militia rallied at the first call to arms with praiseworthy alacrity, and the spirit which pervades the country, swelled their numbers with volunteers from all quarters. The gallantry displayed and the success achieved, have been duly recognized by the highest Military authority, and honored in gratifying terms of appreciation, by Her Most Gracious Majesty. In maintaining the Militia on active duty, the Government incurred an outlay to a considerable amount beyond what was provided by the votes of last Session. The accounts of the entire expenditure for the defence of the frontier will be laid before you, and I feel confident that you will pass a bill to indemnify the Government.  My anticipations of success in regard to the Act passed for the Government of Manitoba, and the North West Territories, and in regard to the Military Expedition, which it was necessary to despatch, have been fortunately realized. The troops surmounted the difficulties of the long and toilsome route with endurance and intelligence. They encountered no armed opposition, and their arrival at the Red River was cordially welcomed by the inhabitants. The people of the new Province have, under the Constitution accorded to them last year, assumed all the duties of self•government, and every appearance warrants the hope that they are entering steadily upon a career of peace and prosperity. The Legislature of British Columbia has passed an Address to Her Majesty, praying for admission into the union, on the terms and conditions therein stated. All the papers on this important subject will be submitted, and your earnest attention is invited to them. I hope you will think that the terms are so fair as to justify you in passing a similar Address, so that the boundaries of Canada, may, 