COMMONS DEBATES March 31, 1871 Union with British Columbia provide for its representation in the Senate by three Members, and in the House of Commons by six Members, while its population is about 10,000, and such representation in the House of Commons is enormously in excess of the proper number according to population, and is in violation of the fundamental principle of the fact between the Provinces, a principle which ought not to be disturbed without the assent of the Provinces, and that the said Resolutions be referred back to a Committee of the Whole for the purpose of reducing the number of representatives of British Columbia in the House of Commons.” Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) said though both sides deprecated the party considerations, he had never heard a question made so completely one of party. He did not think the country was in a position to undertake the expenditure proposed. He considered the Imperial Government ought to share in the expense of any scheme for opening up the North West. He maintained that the country was not suitable for settlement, or the present population would have been much larger. He objected to the Indians being taken into account, as they had done but little good to Canada. He was in favor of the consideration of the matter being postponed and should vote for the amendment. Mr. BOLTON in explaining the reference made to him by the Minister of Customs, said he had not charged him with making reckless statements, but that while giving him and the Government every credit for being in earnest in desiring to construct the road, he thought it very doubtful whether a company would be found to undertake it. Mr. MACKENZIE’S amendment was then put, and the following vote taken: Yeas, 68; nays, 85. Mr. CARTWRIGHT believe that the Government had been led into the inconceivable blunder of naming a period for the construction of the road and the amendment he was about to propose differed from others in these respects, it did not interfere with the pledge to commence the railway, and only pledged that they would use their utmost exertions to go on with the work as fast as practicable, and it need involve but a very short delay. He moved that the eleventh paragraph should be amended by inserting the words ‘‘use their utmost exertions’’ after the word ‘‘further.’’ Mr. KILLAM then moved in amendment to the amendment, that the words ‘‘while its population is about 10,000’’ be struck out. Mr. KILLAM’S amendment was rejected on the following division: Yeas, 43; nays 100. Mr. BODWELL’S amendment was then put, and the vote resulted as follows: Yeas, 58; nays, 87. Mr. BLAKE moved in amendment to leave out all the words after ‘‘that’’ and insert the following: ‘‘The proposed terms of Union with British Columbia provide for the payment by the Dominion to British Columbia of a yearly sum of $100,000 in perpetuity (equal to a capital sum of $2,000,000) for the cession of a tract of waste land on the route of the proposed Pacific Railway to aid in its construction, while any such land required for that purpose should be ceded without charge in like manner as the lands of the Dominion are to be so ceded, and that the said Resolutions be re•committed for the purpose of amending the same in accordance with this Revolution.’’ The amendment was put and the vote was as follows:—Yeas, 59; nays, 84. The first, second, and third resolutions were carried. Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that an address, embodying the said resolutions be presented to Her Majesty and that a Select Committee, composed of Messrs. Tilley, Morris, Tupper, Chauveau, Ferguson, Savary, and the mover be appointed to draft such address.—Carried. The Committee presented the draft address, which was received and read a first time, to be read a second time, at the next Session of the House. The House adjourned at 1.45 a.m. 