COMMONS DEBATES Hochelaga, that the franchise should be for the Dominion the same as by law established for each of the Provinces. (Hear, hear.) Hon. Sir GEORGE-ƒ. CARTIER said he did not intend to discuss the measure at this moment, but he felt it to be his duty to answer some of the observations made by the hon. gentleman opposite. The Manitoba measure was submitted to the House as the result of the negotiations carried on between the Dominion of Canada and the gentlemen sent as delegates from Manitoba. No one knew at the close of last session that Manitoba would certainly be a member of the Confederation. There was no necessity or intention at the outset that Manitoba should form a province and be comprised in the Confederation. It was intended that it should be a Crown colony, and that very reason induced the Government at the time to withdraw the Bill. Mr. BLAKE: Hear, hear! Hon. Sir GEORGE-ƒ. CARTIER: Then with regard to the remarks of the hon. member for Lambton, he would say that the Bill was proposed last year as there was no hope that we should have British Columbia so soon. Every one expected of course, that sooner or later that colony would be comprised as one of the sister colonies in the Dominion. It would be useless at the close of this Parliament, with one Province just admitted and another shortly to be admitted into the Confederation, to endeavour to assimilate the laws. They could not make a law now which would apply to British Columbia. He hoped his hon. friend would take with a better feeling the good intention of the Government in adopting this course. The Bill was read a first time. * * * PAPERS ON BRITISH COLUMBIA  A message from His Excellency, accompanying papers relative to the proposed union of British Columbia with Canada, was read. * * * HIS EXCELLENCYÕS PEERAGE The SPEAKER read the following reply of His Excellency the Governor General to the recent congratulatory address of the House of Commons:  Mr. Speaker and Gentlemen of the House of Commons. I beg you to accept my sincere thanks for the address of congratulation with which you have honoured me on the occasion of my elevation to the Peerage. The expression of your acquiescence in the favourable view which our Sovereign has graciously deigned to take of my services is highly to be valued, as conveying the good opinion of the freely February 28, 1871 chosen representatives of a people possessing the precious endowments of energetic industry, self-reliance, and firm and orderly attachment to the freedom and institutions of their country.  The North West Territories already added to the Confederation and the willing accession of British Columbia, which, it is to be hoped, will shortly take effect, as they extend your bounds, so they proportionately augment the cares and responsibilities of those who are in the high places of the land; but the legislature and people of the Dominion will, I feel persuaded, prove equal to the lofty task, the vast and varied interests throughout the wide domain will be safe in their charge and gradually cemented into one compact and contented whole, by the same wise legislation, and the same equal administration of affairs as have done so much in the past to establish the well being and satisfy the just expectations of the people. In conclusion, I return your good wishes with all sincerity, and assure you I shall retain and cherish to the close of my life a warm interest in all that regards the position and prospects of this great and growing country. LISGAR GOVERNMENT HOUSE, FEBRUARY 27, 1871 * * * BRITISH COLUMBIA PAPERS Hon. Sir GEORGE-ƒ. CARTIER moved that the papers just submitted to the House be printed without delay. He explained that the Hon. Mr. Trutch, the delegate from British Columbia, was now in Chicago, on his way to Ottawa, and would reach here, he expected, on Saturday. It was necessary, therefore, that the House should be in possession of the correspondence relative to the admission of the sister colony into the union. Mr. MASSON (Terrebonne) complained of delays in printing public documents in the French language. He knew that it took some time to translate papers, but then, if there were not translators enough to do the work, more should be employed.  After a short discussion on the subject the motion was carried. * * * EXPENSE OF FENIAN INVASION Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS moved that the House should on Friday next go into Committee of the Whole to consider resolutions affirming the expediency of indemnifying the Government for having authorized the issue of a special warrant for $200,000, to provide for the defence of the Dominion in repelling the Fenian invasion in the month of May last. 