COMMONS DEBATES March 23, 1871 HOUSE OF COMMONS Thursday, March 23, 1871 The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 o’clock after routine. Prayers WESTERN BANK Mr. KILLAM introduced a Bill to incorporate the Western Bank. * * * SUN INSURANCE COMPANY Mr. WORKMAN withdrew the Bill to incorporate the Sun Insurance Company. * * * INSOLVENT ACT Mr. MAGILL introduced a Bill to amend the Insolvent Act of 1869. * * * QUEBEC MARINE AND FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY Mr. SIMARD introduced a Bill to amend the Act incorporating the Quebec Marine and Fire Insurance Company. * * * FEMALE CONVICTS Hon. Mr. IRVINE introduced a Bill to make provision for the detention of Female convicts in the Reformatory Prison of the Province of Quebec. (All these bills received first reading.) * * * BRITISH COLUMBIA DEBATES Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER announced that the Government had made no further arrangement for special reports of the debates on the British Columbia measure. Hon. Sir A.T. GALT said he was sorry that the Government had arrived at that conclusion, for the debates would be particularly interesting to British Columbia, and would not reach there in as full a form as they would otherwise have done had his suggestion been adopted. He trusted that the energy usually displayed by the reports would on this occasion supplement the necessity that would exist for full reports. Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) believed the Government deserved credit for the decision to which they had come. He was about to proceed further, when The SPEAKER called him to order. There was no question before the House. Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) thought he had as good a right to speak on the subject as other hon. gentlemen. The SPEAKER explained that a minister of the Crown had simply answered a question put on a former occasion by the hon. member for Sherbrooke, and there the matter should drop. Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) said he was sorry to be obliged to resort to extreme measures, but he had a precedent for it only the other day. He moved the adjournment of the House. (Laughter.) He continued at some length to explain that he was elected on the Independent ticket, and though he might have erred in judgment, he had always endeavoured to preserve economy in the administration of public affairs. (At this point the hon. gentleman’s voice became inaudible, owing to the slamming of desks and other noises in the House resorted to, to silence him.) He did not approve of going to any additional expense in the British Columbia matter. The SPEAKER suggested that it would be as well to postpone the discussion until the British Columbia Bill should be before the House. Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) bowed to the opinion of the Speaker, and withdrew his motion. Mr. RYMAL rose to reply to some remarks made by the hon. member for Leeds and Grenville, with respect to his (Mr. Rymal’s) course in Parliament. The hon. member had seen fit to take him (Mr. Rymal) to task and would fain make the House believe that he would encourage extravagance in the administration of public 