COMMONS DEBATES
1
February 15, 1871
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Wednesday, February 15, 1871
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3.00 p.m.
_______________
Prayers
_______________
A MESSAGE was brought by René Kimber, Esquire, Gentleman
Usher of the Black Rod:—
The SPEAKER,
His Excellency, the Governor General desires the immediate
attendance of this Honorable House in the Senate Chamber.
Accordingly, Mr. Speaker, with the House, went to the Senate
Chamber:—And being returned:
Mr. Speaker informed the House, that during the Recess, he had
received the following notifications of vacancies which had
occurred in the representation of the electoral districts of
Missisquoi, Quebec (City) East, Cumberland, (Nova Scotia)
Bellechasse, Saint-Hyacinthe, Colchester, (N.S.), Richelieu and
Restigouche; and that he had issued his Warrants to the Clerk of the
Crown in Chancery to make out new Writs for the Election of
Members to serve in this present Parliament for the said Electoral
Districts:
Adolphe Tourangeau, Esquire, Member for the Electoral District
of Quebec East; Louis Delorme, Esquire, Member for the Electoral
District of Saint-Hyacinthe; George Moffatt, Esquire, Member for
the Electoral District of Restigouche (New Brunswick); Leverett de
Veber Chipman, Esquire, Member for the Electoral District of
Kings; Georges Isidore Barthe, Esquire, Member for the Electoral
District of Richelieu; and the Honorable Charles Tupper, C.B.,
Member for the Electoral District of Cumberland, having
previously taken the Oath, according to Law, and subscribed before
the Commissioners the Roll containing the same, took their seats in
the House.
Ordered, That the Hon. Sir John A. Macdonald have leave to
bring in a Bill respecting the administration of Oaths of Office.
He accordingly presented the said Bill to the House, and the same
was received and read the first time.
Mr. Speaker reported, That when the House did attend His
Excellency the Governor General this day, in the Senate Chamber,
His Excellency was pleased to make a Speech to both Houses of
Parliament, of which Mr. Speaker said he had, to prevent mistakes,
obtained a copy which he read to the House, as followeth:—
Honorable Gentlemen of the Senate, Gentlemen of the House of
Commons,—
I have much satisfaction in meeting you at this, the usual and
most convenient season of the year, and under the present
auspicious circumstances of the Country.
The hope I was sanguine enough to express at the close of the
last session that no further attempt would be made to disturb our
frontier, was doomed to early disappointment. The Session had
scarcely closed when lawless bands assembled within the United
States in great numbers, and renewed the menace of invasion. They
ventured to cross the border at two points, but were promptly met
and repelled. So complete and humiliating was the repulse, that the
invaders lost heart and hope, threw away quantities of arms, and fell
back to encumber the villages in their rear, with their starving and
demoralized masses. Our Militia rallied at the first call to arms with
praiseworthy alacrity, and the spirit which pervades the country,
swelled their numbers with volunteers from all quarters. The
gallantry displayed and the success achieved, have been duly
recognized by the highest Military authority, and honored in
gratifying terms of appreciation, by Her Most Gracious Majesty. In
maintaining the Militia on active duty, the Government incurred an
outlay to a considerable amount beyond what was provided by the
votes of last Session. The accounts of the entire expenditure for the
defence of the frontier will be laid before you, and I feel confident
that you will pass a bill to indemnify the Government.
My anticipations of success in regard to the Act passed for the
Government of Manitoba, and the North West Territories, and in
regard to the Military Expedition, which it was necessary to
despatch, have been fortunately realized. The troops surmounted the
difficulties of the long and toilsome route with endurance and
intelligence. They encountered no armed opposition, and their
arrival at the Red River was cordially welcomed by the inhabitants.
The people of the new Province have, under the Constitution
accorded to them last year, assumed all the duties of self-
government, and every appearance warrants the hope that they are
entering steadily upon a career of peace and prosperity.
The Legislature of British Columbia has passed an Address to
Her Majesty, praying for admission into the union, on the terms and
conditions therein stated. All the papers on this important subject
will be submitted, and your earnest attention is invited to them. I
hope you will think that the terms are so fair as to justify you in
passing a similar Address, so that the boundaries of Canada, may,COMMONS DEBATES
2
February 15, 1871
at an early day, be extended from the shores of the Atlantic Ocean
on the one side, to the shores of the Pacific on the other.
Should such an Address be adopted, it will be necessary for you
to take steps to secure the early exploration and survey of a route
for an Interoceanic Railway, with a view to its construction in
accordance with the terms of Union.
The acquisition of the North West Territories throws upon the
Government and Parliament of the Dominion the duty of promoting
their early settlement by the encouragement of immigration. This
duty can be best discharged by a liberal land policy, and by opening
up communications through our own country to Manitoba. The
means proposed for accomplishing these purposes will be submitted
for your consideration.
Her Majesty’s Government has decided upon referring the
Fishery question, along with other questions pending between the
two countries, to a joint commission to be named by Her Majesty’s
Government and the Government of the United States. On this
commission Canada will be represented. This mode of dealing with
the various matters in controversy will, I trust, lead to their
satisfactory adjustment. Canada urges no demand beyond those to
which she is plainly entitled by Treaty and the law of Nations. She
has pushed no claim to an extreme assertion, and only sought to
maintain the rights of her own people fairly and firmly, but in a
friendly and considerate spirit and with all due respect to foreign
powers and international obligations. The thanks of the country are
due to the Admiral on the Station and those under his command, for
the valuable and efficient aid which they rendered to our cruisers
during the past season in maintaining order and protecting the
inshore fisheries from encroachment.
The prospect of the adoption of an international currency seems,
in the present state of Europe, to be so remote, that I recommend
you to consider the propriety of assimilating the currency of the
Dominion without further delay.
The extension to Manitoba of the militia and other laws of the
Dominion, and their adaptation to the present circumstances of that
young Province, will require your attention.
The decennial Census will be taken on the third day of April
next, and it is believed that a more thorough and accurate system
has been adopted than any that has hitherto obtained. It may be
necessary to amend the Act of last session in some particulars.
Among other measures, Bills will be presented to you relating to
Parliamentary Elections, Weights and Measures, Insurance
Companies, Savings Banks, and for the Consolidation and
Amendment of the Inspection Laws.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons,—
I have given directions that the Public Accounts shall be laid
before you. You will learn with satisfaction that the Revenue for the
past year was in excess of what was estimated, and that the
prospects for the current year are so encouraging that,
notwithstanding the extensive public improvements which are
contemplated, you will probably be able to diminish the taxation of
the Country.
The Estimates for the ensuing year will be submitted to you, and
I feel assured that you will be of opinion that the supplies which
you will be asked to vote can be granted without inconvenience to
the people.
Hon. Gentlemen of the Senate, Gentlemen of the House of
Commons,—
I lay these various and weighty matters before you, in full
confidence that they will engage your mature attention, and I pray
that the result of your deliberations may, with the Divine Blessing,
prove conducive in all respects to the advancement and happiness
of the country.
Hon. Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD moved that His
Excellency’s speech be taken into consideration tomorrow.
The House resolved to establish the usual Standing Committees,
and adjournment was moved by Hon. Sir John A. Macdonald,
seconded by Hon. Sir George-É. Cartier.
* * *
THE FISHERIES
On the motion for adjournment, Mr. MACKENZIE asked if it
was the intention of the Government to bring down any
correspondence regarding the fisheries before the discussion on the
address of His Excellency tomorrow. It was desirable on so
important a matter, if there was any correspondence relative to the
appointment of the Joint High Commission that the House should
have it before them, as it was quite impossible for them to avoid
discussing it during the debate tomorrow. It was a matter of far too
much importance to this country, looking at it simply as one
respecting our national rights, that the House should pass dumbly
over this portion of His Excellency’s speech without discussing, to
some extent, at least, the questions that everyone could see were
involved in it. The Commission, for anything they might know to
the contrary, might adopt some course that this Parliament might
not think consistent with the national interests in this Dominion;
and it was desirable that, at the earliest possible moment some
expression of the opinion of public men in the country should be
had on it. He took it for granted that the correspondence would be
brought down.
Hon. Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD said it was not the intention
of the government to bring down any correspondence or any papers
of any kind before the answer to the address was carried. It was an
unusual course and an exceedingly inconvenient one that the hon.
member proposed. Care would be taken that the address to be
moved should not commit any member of this House to the
approval of the policy of the government on that or any other
question. The government would, so soon as the House should
address itself to business, bring down such portions of theCOMMONS DEBATES
7
February 16, 1871
obtainment of the opinion of this House in reference to the
important matters to be dealt with by the approaching International
Commission. The Hon. Premier was soon to leave for Washington.
No discussion of the fishery or other questions, to come before the
Commission, would be of the slightest advantage if it were to
follow the departure of the leader of the Government. He thought it
was their bounden duty to strengthen the hands of their
representative on that Commission by every means in their power.
He proposed to do so by a resolution. If the Government promised
him an early opportunity of doing so—say Monday or Tuesday, he
would not stand in the way of the immediate passage of the address.
Hon. Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD promised the early
opportunity solicited. He quite recognised the importance of these
subjects, and the propriety of the discussion before he left for
Washington.
Hon. Sir A.T. GALT said he was satisfied with that statement,
as he believed fair play would be given him.
The matter then dropped.
* * *
THE DEBATE ON THE ADDRESS
Mr. LACERTE rose to propose the address in reply to His
Excellency’s Speech from the Throne. Taking up the various
paragraphs, he spoke briefly on each, as usual, expressing
concurrence in the different views therein set forth, and
complimenting the Government on its administrative policy. He
referred particularly to the Fenian enterprise of last spring, and the
wise and vigorous efforts put forth for its overthrow. He hoped the
House would fully sustain the Administration in this matter by
voting the additional expenditure it was compelled to incur. He was
glad at the prospect of the settlement of the fishery dispute, and
believed everything would be done to protect Canada’s interests.
Fortunately the Red River trouble was ended, thanks to the
judicious and conciliatory action of the Government, and to the
exertions and bravery of the Volunteers. The Dominion was in a
prosperous condition, largely owing to the wisdom of Ministers,
who deserved the confidence of Parliament and the people. He had
much pleasure in moving the Address.
Mr. KIRKPATRICK rose to second the motion. The topics of
the speech well deserved the compliments paid them. Scarcely had
the Parliament been prorogued last summer when hordes of
miscreants from the United States suddenly assembled on our
frontier to pillage and ravage our land. To add to the infamy and
offensiveness of this outrage, those marauders chose for the time of
their unwarranted operations, the day above all, dear to loyal British
subjects, the Queen’s birthday. The hostile movement was, thanks
to the bravery and loyalty of our volunteers and the troops of the
Queen, hurled back in disgrace from our border. He hoped and
doubted not the House would cheerfully vote the extra expenses
entailed by this attempted Fenian invasion.
The next subject of the Speech was the Fisheries, and it was but
truth to say that the action of the Canadian Government in regard to
them had met with the approbation of the whole country. The
reference of General Grant to the action of Canada exhibited both
ignorance and prejudice. The Dominion had but acted within its
right, and it was certain The next subject in the speech was that of
Manitoba. No better Governor could have been chosen than him
who is now de facto, if not de jure in power. The improvements
already witnessed in Manitoba prove the judiciousness of the efforts
made to suppress disorder and rebellion, and set up the authority of
Canada. The brave Volunteers who had been instrumental in
securing those happy results, deserved the thanks of the country.
When disbanded he believed they were entitled to grants of land in
Manitoba. No better settlers could be chosen, and in justice to them,
and in the interests of the Province, everything should be done to
retain them in the North West.
The proposed admission of British Columbia and Vancouver
Island was a subject of satisfaction to us all. The great scheme of
Confederation was being rapidly consummated. Those great
territories, so rich in natural resources, would be a great acquisition
to Canada, and everything possible should be done to unite them to
her by a Pacific Railway, grants of land, and, if possible, pecuniary
contributions, should be made in aid of such enterprises.
There is little doubt that in this way they could be achieved.
Immigrants were necessary to development of the great resources of
the Pacific colonies, and good, rapid communications were
indispensable to the attraction of immigration. The next subject of
the Speech was the Fisheries, and it was but truth to say that the
action of the Canadian Government in regard to them had met with
the approbation of the whole country. The reference of General
Grant to the action of Canada exhibited both ignorance and
prejudice. The Dominion had but acted within its right, and it was
certain that action was justified by the approval of the Government
of England also. However, a Joint Commission had been appointed
to consider the Fishery question and that relating to events
connected with the last war, and from it he thought Canada had
nothing to fear. He hoped, however, that the injury done to Canada
by repeated Fenian raids would form one of the subjects discussed,
and that indemnity for our losses thereby would be as rigorously
required as was indemnity for the losses from the Alabama.
The improvement of our coinage system and other proposals of
the speech would be cordially received. The interests of the country
demanded such ameliorations. The general administration of the
affairs of the Dominion had been beneficial, as its progress and
prosperity amply testified. He could but concur in the closing
aspiration of the Speech from the Throne, upon which the future
happiness and advancement of Canada would largely depend.
Mr. MACKENZIE said that it was important in opening the
grant inquest of the nation, that they should review the
administration of affairs and foreign events, while abstaining from
unusual criticism. Tremendous events had taken place since the last
session, including those of a gigantic and disastrous war. It was but
right he should express his sympathy with the sacrifices and
sufferings of that great nation, being the friend and ally of England.
He did hope that France would not suffer much either in feeling orCOMMONS DEBATES
11
February 16, 1871
fight in our own quarrels. In our present position the feeling in
favour of independence was spreading.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS [excitedly]: No, no.
also competent for the Lieutenant-Governor of Manitoba to ask for
extradition.
The second paragraph of the address was agreed to.
Mr. MASSON (Terrebonne): Yes, yes. The feeling was
spreading. He appealed to the Government if they wished to
continue the connection with England, as he did to enlighten the
House on the intention of the Imperial Government, for Mr.
Cardwell, a member of that Government; had recently delivered a
speech the argument of which was that the colonies should in future
act for the defence of England, or be feeders and not suckers. Hon. Mr. DORION on the proposal of the adoption of the
paragraph relating to the admission of British Columbia, protested
that he knew nothing of the merits of the terms of this admission,
and declared his unwillingness to express blindfold any concurrence
in the Government’s Pacific Railway scheme. If it was to be one of
the character of the Intercolonial Railway, he would give it his
strenuous opposition. He could not approve of the wording of the
paragraph.
Mr. MILLS said the Federal system made it necessary that each
Province should have an independent governmental existence. Such
could not be given to any Province by this Parliament. He had
called attention to this fact last year, and was glad the Minister of
Justice had changed his views in this respect. (Hear, hear.) As to
the murder of Scott, it was still competent for the Government of
Canada to authorize the trial and punishment of Riel. The Minister
of Justice had said that this Government had no power to cause the
arrest of the murderers of Scott. This was not so. The Hudson’s Bay
Company were bound by the Imperial Government to transfer to
Canada, for trial and punishment, persons guilty of higher crimes
than misdemeanour. It was still competent for the Government of
Canada to authorize the trial and punishment of Riel, and it was Hon. Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD consented to a verbal
alteration to meet the objection of the last speaker. The change was
of a non-committal character, and thus modified, the clause was
adopted.
The remaining paragraphs were read and concurred in without
debate, and the address, being read a second time, was agreed to.
After the usual formal resolutions in regard to the address and its
presentation, Hon. Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD gave notice of an
address of congratulation to Lord Lisgar on the distinguished
honour recently conferred upon him by Her Majesty.
The House adjourned at a quarter past nine.COMMONS DEBATES
13
February 17, 1871
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Friday, February 17, 1871
The SPEAKER took the chair at three o’clock.
_______________
Prayers
_______________
Several petitions and motions were presented.
* * *
LACHINE CANAL BRIDGE
Hon. Mr. HOLTON asked if the Grand Trunk Railway had
asked permission to erect an additional bridge on or near the
Lachine Canal, at the Wellington Bridge, Montreal, and if so, when
the permission was applied for and when granted.
Hon. Mr. LANGEVIN said the Railway company was allowed
to cross the canal with a swing bridge at Wellington Street, to be
built at the place and in the stead of the existing bridge, and subject
to the conditions he would lay before the House.
Hon. Mr. HOLTON: When was the permission applied for, and
when granted?
Hon. Mr. LANGEVIN: Applied for on 17th January, 1871, and
granted 28th January.
* * *
the Local Government and the Dominion Government, only a
portion of which could be of any service to the hon. member.
Mr. MACKENZIE said he only wished to obtain that portion
relative to the new system of Government, the division of the
Province into electoral districts, and everything, in fact, connected
with the new order of things. He did not want the formal
correspondence.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER called the attention of the
hon. member to the fact that Lieutenant-Governor Archibald was
the Governor of the North West Territory as well as of Manitoba,
and correspondence relevant to both capacities should be included.
The motion was amended in accordance with the suggestion, and
carried.
* * *
PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS submitted the public accounts for
the year.
(Applause.)
Mr. MACKENZIE: It will save us a great deal of trouble.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS also laid on the table details of
expenditure for the defence of the country.
GRAND TRUNK RETURNS Mr. MACKENZIE: Perhaps the hon. member will give us
details of all the expenditure from the fund for unforeseen expenses.
Mr. MACKENZIE moved for returns of statements, showing
the gross earnings of the Grand Trunk Railway during certain
years.—Carried. Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said they would be submitted in a
few days.
* * *
NORTH WEST INSTRUCTIONS
Mr. MACKENZIE moved an address for copies of all
instructions to Lieutenant-Governor Archibald, also copies of all
reports and official correspondence between the Lieutenant-
Governor and the Dominion Government from the date of his
appointment.
Hon. Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD said that while no objection
would be urged to furnishing the returns asked for, it would be as
well to mention exactly the papers which were wanted. There was a
very large amount of correspondence continually passing between
* * *
BRITISH COLUMBIA CORRESPONDENCE
MOTIONS
Mr. MACKENZIE moved for an address for copies of all
correspondence between the Government and British Columbia, its
delegates, or the Imperial Government relative to the admission of
such colony into the Dominion; also copies of all orders in council
or other documents relating to such negotiation.—Carried.
Hon. Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD said all correspondence
would be brought down by message, and the motion was
unnecessary.COMMONS DEBATES
67
February 28, 1871
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Tuesday, February 28, 1871
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3.00 p.m.
_______________
Prayers
_______________
Several petitions were presented.
* * *
CORRECTION
Hon. Mr. CONNELL (whose remarks were very indistinctly
heard in the reporter’s gallery) referred to a mistake which had been
made in the report of his speech yesterday with regard to the
settlement of accounts between New Brunswick and the Dominion.
He had been represented as saying that ‘‘it would be necessary to
get an alteration of the Union Act.’’ He would not like to have it go
abroad to his constituents that he had made such an absurd
statement. He had no wish to have the Union Act disturbed for a
settlement of the accounts between New Brunswick and the
Dominion. He had no doubt that a just and equitable arrangement
would be made.
* * *
LIBRARY OFFICIALS
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that the Library
Committee be instructed to inquire into the remuneration,
classification, etc., of the officers of the library.
Carried.
* * *
NEW MEMBER
Mr. PEARSON the member elected by the constituency of
Colchester to fill the place rendered vacant by the appointment of
Hon. Mr. Archibald to the Lieutenant-Governorship of the North
West, was introduced by Messrs. Carmichael and Killam, and took
his seat.
* * *
THE ELECTION LAW
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER introduced a bill to make
temporary provision for the election of members for the House of
Commons. (Hear, hear from the Opposition.) He expected that his
hon. friends opposite would say ‘‘hear, hear’’ at the very mention
of the measure. He would explain that since we were about to have
another province comprised in this Dominion, it was obvious that
the government could not yet enact a law to affect all the provinces
of the Dominion, as far as the representation of this House was
concerned. The circumstances of Manitoba having been recently
admitted into the Union and British Columbia being on the eve of
joining the Confederation, had led the Government to the
conclusion that it would be better to carry on the next election for
the Dominion under the laws as they now prevail in the several
provinces. (Hear, hear from the Opposition.) He might state that the
bill too, contained a provision with regard to the number of days on
which elections were to take place. This Bill provided that the
elections should take place on one day. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. BLAKE said that after two permanent Electoral Bills had
been passed, the House was now asked to enact a temporary one.
Last session one had been passed, the session before the House had
passed one, and now they were asked to deal with another one. The
hon. gentleman had explained that the reason why he now
submitted this temporary measure, was because of the introduction
of the new Provinces into Confederation. At what period since the
1st July, 1867, was not the House favoured with the news that new
Provinces were to be added? Every day they were told they were
coming in, though they didn’t come.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS: Yes! yes!
Mr. BLAKE: And yet the Hon. Minister of Militia had asserted
that it was in view of these additions to the Dominion that this
temporary Act was provided. Last session the Opposition had
pointed out the effect that the new measure then submitted would
have in the East and in the West. They had shown that it would be
impossible to work it in Manitoba, and that difficulties would arise
in other Provinces too. But they were told that their arguments were
fallacious, and that the Union would overcome all the difficulties
which were then deprecated. He was glad to hear that, taught by
experience, they had admitted the truth of the arguments then
advanced by the Opposition, that it was necessary to respect the
views of the different Provinces on the subject, and by degrees as
they became more acquainted with the franchise laws of other
countries, the Government had made some approach towards
providing for a common franchise for the Dominion. He was not
surprised that it was merely a temporary Act. It would be coming
down too far to propose as a permanent Act what they opposed so
consistently before, but, he had no doubt that it would contain for
some years to come the principle at the base of our Parliamentary
representation, founded on the motion of the hon. member forCOMMONS DEBATES
68
February 28, 1871
Hochelaga, that the franchise should be for the Dominion the same
as by law established for each of the Provinces. (Hear, hear.)
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said he did not intend to
discuss the measure at this moment, but he felt it to be his duty to
answer some of the observations made by the hon. gentleman
opposite. The Manitoba measure was submitted to the House as the
result of the negotiations carried on between the Dominion of
Canada and the gentlemen sent as delegates from Manitoba. No one
knew at the close of last session that Manitoba would certainly be a
member of the Confederation. There was no necessity or intention
at the outset that Manitoba should form a province and be
comprised in the Confederation. It was intended that it should be a
Crown colony, and that very reason induced the Government at the
time to withdraw the Bill.
Mr. BLAKE: Hear, hear!
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER: Then with regard to the
remarks of the hon. member for Lambton, he would say that the Bill
was proposed last year as there was no hope that we should have
British Columbia so soon. Every one expected of course, that
sooner or later that colony would be comprised as one of the sister
colonies in the Dominion. It would be useless at the close of this
Parliament, with one Province just admitted and another shortly to
be admitted into the Confederation, to endeavour to assimilate the
laws. They could not make a law now which would apply to British
Columbia. He hoped his hon. friend would take with a better feeling
the good intention of the Government in adopting this course.
The Bill was read a first time.
* * *
PAPERS ON BRITISH COLUMBIA
A message from His Excellency, accompanying papers relative
to the proposed union of British Columbia with Canada, was read.
* * *
HIS EXCELLENCY’S PEERAGE
The SPEAKER read the following reply of His Excellency the
Governor General to the recent congratulatory address of the House
of Commons:
Mr. Speaker and Gentlemen of the House of Commons.
I beg you to accept my sincere thanks for the address of
congratulation with which you have honoured me on the occasion
of my elevation to the Peerage.
The expression of your acquiescence in the favourable view
which our Sovereign has graciously deigned to take of my services
is highly to be valued, as conveying the good opinion of the freely
chosen representatives of a people possessing the precious
endowments of energetic industry, self-reliance, and firm and
orderly attachment to the freedom and institutions of their country.
The North West Territories already added to the Confederation
and the willing accession of British Columbia, which, it is to be
hoped, will shortly take effect, as they extend your bounds, so they
proportionately augment the cares and responsibilities of those who
are in the high places of the land; but the legislature and people of
the Dominion will, I feel persuaded, prove equal to the lofty task,
the vast and varied interests throughout the wide domain will be
safe in their charge and gradually cemented into one compact and
contented whole, by the same wise legislation, and the same equal
administration of affairs as have done so much in the past to
establish the well being and satisfy the just expectations of the
people. In conclusion, I return your good wishes with all sincerity,
and assure you I shall retain and cherish to the close of my life a
warm interest in all that regards the position and prospects of this
great and growing country.
LISGAR
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
FEBRUARY 27, 1871
* * *
BRITISH COLUMBIA PAPERS
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that the papers just
submitted to the House be printed without delay. He explained that
the Hon. Mr. Trutch, the delegate from British Columbia, was now
in Chicago, on his way to Ottawa, and would reach here, he
expected, on Saturday. It was necessary, therefore, that the House
should be in possession of the correspondence relative to the
admission of the sister colony into the union.
Mr. MASSON (Terrebonne) complained of delays in printing
public documents in the French language. He knew that it took
some time to translate papers, but then, if there were not translators
enough to do the work, more should be employed.
After a short discussion on the subject the motion was carried.
* * *
EXPENSE OF FENIAN INVASION
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS moved that the House should on
Friday next go into Committee of the Whole to consider resolutions
affirming the expediency of indemnifying the Government for
having authorized the issue of a special warrant for $200,000, to
provide for the defence of the Dominion in repelling the Fenian
invasion in the month of May last.COMMONS DEBATES
182
March 14, 1871
Hon. Mr. DORION said the hon. gentleman did not seem to
propose any amendment of the Act of last session except to allow
the Banks to come under this general law. One part of the
resolutions had given rise to some difficulty. What was meant by
the words ‘‘cash reserves?’’ In Montreal there had been a good deal
of discussion as to the exact meaning or requirement of the ‘‘cash
reserves’’ on which was to be based the amount of Dominion notes
or funds to be kept by the bank.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said he did not see any difficulty
of the kind mentioned; nor had he heard of any, though he had had
a great deal of conversation with bankers since the Act of last
session was passed. The course he proposed was the reference of
the Bill to the Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce,
where all those matters could be fully considered. He was sure the
Bill would come from that Committee in a satisfactory shape. He
then moved the adoption of the first resolution, which was carried
as were all the others.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS then introduced a Bill relating to
Banks and banking.
* * *
BRITISH COLUMBIA
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that the House go
into committee on Friday next to consider the resolutions respecting
the admission of British Columbia. He explained that as this was a
most important measure it would not be discussed till Friday next.
Hon. Mr. DORION suggested that the debate be deferred till a
week from Friday next.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said it was not likely that the
subject would be exhausted in one day. On next Tuesday, Mr.
Trutch, who was at present in Washington, would be here, and as
that gentleman wished to go to England as soon as possible, the
debate would commence on Tuesday.
Hon. Mr. DORION said it was a very large measure, and it
would be well to have the Ontario Opposition and the members of
the Ontario Cabinet who were absent, in the House while it was
under discussion. The debate would be protracted rather than
advanced by the course which the Government proposed.
Mr. HARRISON said it was pleasant to observe that the hon.
gentlemen opposite were alive to the fact that several Ontario
members were absent from the House. Yesterday, when the
arbitration question was brought up, they seemed to be quite
oblivious to the fact. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. MILLS thought the House should be put in possession of a
statement of the imports of British Columbia before the question
should be brought before the House.
After some further discussion the motion was carried.
* * *
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Hon. Mr. MORRIS moved that the House go into Committee at
some future day to consider certain resolutions for the establishing
of a uniform system of weights and measures for all Canada. The
resolutions also permitted the use of the metric system where two
parties to a contract were agreeable.—Carried.
* * *
INSPECTION LAWS
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS moved that the House go into
Committee of the Whole at a future day to consider a resolution
declaring it expedient to amend and consolidate, and to extend to
the whole Dominion of Canada, the laws respecting the inspection
of certain staple articles of Canadian produce.—Carried.
* * *
FENIAN RAIDS
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS moved the reception of the report
of the Committee of the Whole on certain resolutions affirming the
expediency of indemnifying the Government for having authorized
the issue of a special warrant for $200,000, to provide for the
defence of the Dominion, in repelling the Fenian invasion in the
month of May last.
The resolutions having been read a second time,
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS introduced a Bill founded on
them.
* * *
INTERIM ELECTIONS BILL
The House went into Committee of the Whole on Bill No. 16, to
make temporary provision for the election of members to serve in
the House of Commons of Canada.
Hon. Mr. IRVINE in the chair.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said he understood the hon.
member opposite intended to make certain amendments to the Bill
now before the Committee. He suggested that the amendments
should be proposed after the Committee should rise.COMMONS DEBATES
247
March 23, 1871
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Thursday, March 23, 1871
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 o’clock after routine.
_______________
Prayers
_______________
WESTERN BANK
Mr. KILLAM introduced a Bill to incorporate the Western
Bank.
* * *
Hon. Sir A.T. GALT said he was sorry that the Government had
arrived at that conclusion, for the debates would be particularly
interesting to British Columbia, and would not reach there in as full
a form as they would otherwise have done had his suggestion been
adopted. He trusted that the energy usually displayed by the reports
would on this occasion supplement the necessity that would exist
for full reports.
Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) believed the
Government deserved credit for the decision to which they had
come. He was about to proceed further, when
SUN INSURANCE COMPANY The SPEAKER called him to order. There was no question
before the House.
Mr. WORKMAN withdrew the Bill to incorporate the Sun
Insurance Company. Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) thought he
had as good a right to speak on the subject as other hon. gentlemen.
* * *
INSOLVENT ACT
Mr. MAGILL introduced a Bill to amend the Insolvent Act of
1869.
The SPEAKER explained that a minister of the Crown had
simply answered a question put on a former occasion by the hon.
member for Sherbrooke, and there the matter should drop.
FEMALE CONVICTS Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) said he was
sorry to be obliged to resort to extreme measures, but he had a
precedent for it only the other day. He moved the adjournment of
the House. (Laughter.) He continued at some length to explain that
he was elected on the Independent ticket, and though he might have
erred in judgment, he had always endeavoured to preserve economy
in the administration of public affairs. (At this point the hon.
gentleman’s voice became inaudible, owing to the slamming of
desks and other noises in the House resorted to, to silence him.) He
did not approve of going to any additional expense in the British
Columbia matter.
Hon. Mr. IRVINE introduced a Bill to make provision for the
detention of Female convicts in the Reformatory Prison of the
Province of Quebec. The SPEAKER suggested that it would be as well to postpone
the discussion until the British Columbia Bill should be before the
House.
* * *
QUEBEC MARINE AND FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
Mr. SIMARD introduced a Bill to amend the Act incorporating
the Quebec Marine and Fire Insurance Company.
* * *
(All these bills received first reading.)
* * *
BRITISH COLUMBIA DEBATES
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER announced that the
Government had made no further arrangement for special reports of
the debates on the British Columbia measure.
Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) bowed to the
opinion of the Speaker, and withdrew his motion.
Mr. RYMAL rose to reply to some remarks made by the hon.
member for Leeds and Grenville, with respect to his (Mr. Rymal’s)
course in Parliament. The hon. member had seen fit to take him
(Mr. Rymal) to task and would fain make the House believe that he
would encourage extravagance in the administration of publicCOMMONS DEBATES
248
March 23, 1871
affairs. He (Mr. Rymal) believed that his course would show that he
had advocated economy whenever it was in the interest of the
public, and he had no desire that every man’s utterances should be
fully reported in the case. He had no desire that a column should be
given to his own speech, though the hon. member for Leeds might.
Whether that hon. gentleman was reported in the regular way or
not, he (Mr. Rymal) could not say, but he had frequently noticed
that if the hon. member only spoke for five minutes in the House, a
column report of it, at least, appeared in the papers. (Laughter.) No
doubt the hon. member engaged a special reporter to record his wise
sayings. As for the charge of inconsistency and want of
independence, he (Mr. Rymal) left it to those who had known them
to say whether he or the hon. member for Leeds was the more
deserving of the charge. The hon. member’s course had been what
Wm. Lyon Mackenzie had said of such members—that those who
boasted of independence in the House were those who never could
be depended on. (Laughter.)
* * *
WEST INDIES MAIL
Mr. FORBES asked whether, in view of the business between
the Dominion and the British and Foreign West Indies, it is the
intention of the Government to increase the mail accommodation
during this year between those countries so as to give greater
advantage and larger development to this important trade.
Hon. Mr. TUPPER said the attention of the Government had
been drawn to the importance of establishing such a service, but
considered it not advisable to undertake it yet.
* * *
PROMISSORY NOTES
Mr. KIRKPATRICK asked whether it is the intention of the
Government to issue stamped paper for the purposes of the
Promissory Notes Stamp Act?
Hon. Mr. MORRIS replied that the subject was at this moment
under the consideration of the Government.
* * *
correspondence. The correspondence was still going on between the
Canadian and Imperial Governments and the Government of the
United States. He hoped the hon. gentleman would accept his
declaration, that it would not be in the public interest to bring any of
it down.
Mr. MACKENZIE said he was of course bound to accept the
assurance of the Government.
* * *
ADMISSION OF RUPERT’S LAND AND THE NORTH-
WEST
Mr. BLAKE moved that this House do resolve itself into a
Committee of the whole to consider the following resolutions:—
1. That the sense of the Houses of the respective Legislatures of
the Provinces Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick was taken
as to, and formed the basis of the Imperial Legislation under which
the said Provinces were federally united into the Dominion of
Canada.
2. That it was by the British North America Act (1867) enacted
that it should be lawful for the Queen, by and with the advice of the
Privy Council, on Addresses from the Houses of Parliament of
Canada, to admit Rupert’s Land and the North Western Territory,
or either of them, into the Union by the said Act created, on such
terms and conditions as the Queen should think fit to approve
subject to the provisions of the said Act; and that the provisions of
any such Order in Council should have effect as if they had been
enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
3. That Addresses have been passed by both Houses of
Parliament of Canada touching the admission of the said Territories
into the Union, and Canada has paid large sums, and incurred large
liabilities in order to accomplish such admission, and an Order in
Council has been made by the Queen for such admission.
4. That the Parliament of Canada has assumed to exercise
jurisdiction over the said Territories and to make provision for the
erection of part of the said Territories into the Province of Manitoba
and for the establishment of federal relations between the said
Provinces and Canada.
On the order for Mr. Mackenzie’s resolution for the
correspondence relative to the canal built by the United States
Government at St. Clair Flat, 5. That it has been made to appear to this House that the
Canadian Government has requested the Government of the United
Kingdom to submit to the Parliament of the United Kingdom a Bill
touching the said North Western Territories or some part thereof;
and that the Government of the United Kingdom in consequence of
such request has proposed to the Canadian Government to submit a
Bill, a draft of which it has forwarded to the Canadian Government.
Mr. MACKENZIE said the first Minister of the Crown had
promised a portion of this correspondence, and he wished to know
if that correspondence could be brought down now. 6. That in the opinion of this House the sense of both Houses of
the Parliament of Canada should be taken as to and should form the
basis of such proposed Legislation.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said it would not be
conducive to public interests to bring down any portion of the Mr. BLAKE said that he proposed in these resolutions to
establish the principle that legislation on matters affecting this
ST. CLAIR FLATS CANALCOMMONS DEBATES
277
March 28, 1871
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Tuesday, March 28, 1871
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 o’clock.
subject, he said, was one which required few words to introduce it.
Its importance was recognized by all.
_______________
Prayers
_______________
AFTER ROUTINE
SAULT STE. MARIE RAILWAY
Mr. SIMPSON introduced a Bill to incorporate the Sault Ste.
Marie Railway and Bridge Company, and it received first reading.
* * *
MANITOBA ELECTIONS
Mr. MACKENZIE referred to the return of the Writs from
Manitoba, and asked if it was the intention of the Government to
refer the matter to a special Committee to report on them to the
House. Under the peculiar circumstances attending the election,
some such precaution should be taken. In order to maintain the
purity of this House and prevent the intrusion of those not entitled
under Imperial Acts to sit here, he thought it was the responsibility
of the Government to indicate their position, and that of those
elected in Manitoba.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said the Government did not
intend to take any such action until the newly elected candidates
should arrive from Manitoba or until objections should be urged to
their taking their seats in the House.
* * *
QUEBEC HARBOUR
Hon. Mr. LANGEVIN introduced a Bill to provide for the
improvement and management of the Harbour of Quebec.
* * *
ADMISSION OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that the House go
into Committee to consider a series of resolutions respecting the
admission of British Columbia into Union with Canada. This
Who would have thought twelve years ago when British
Columbia was erected into a colony by Lord Lytton that it should
form in so short a time a portion of Canada. It was due to the
foresight and statesmanship of that great literary man that he should
quote from a speech of his, delivered in 1858, in which this great
union was foretold. He was now quoting from the prorogation
speech delivered on the 2nd August, 1858. It said: ‘‘The Act to
which Her Majesty’s assent for the establishing of the Colony of
British Columbia was originally required in consequence of the
recent discoveries of gold in that district, but Her Majesty hopes
that this new Colony on the Pacific may be but one of several in a
greater state of progress, by which Her Majesty’s Dominions in
British North America may be ultimately peopled in an unbroken
chain from the Atlantic to the Pacific by loyal subjects of Her
Majesty’s Crown.’’
Could the present movement have been more clearly foretold?
Since 1858 the scheme of Confederation had made great strides
toward completion. He (Hon. Sir George-É. Cartier) regretted the
absence of the hon. member for Shefford on this occasion. That
gentleman had often complained that this country was advancing
too slowly, and said that the Dominion would advance more rapidly
if placed on an independent footing. But, if the hon. member for
Shefford was present today, he could not charge the Ministry with
having been idle since they had brought about the union of all
British North America since they had assumed office. While in
London with his (Hon. Sir George-É Cartier) colleagues, at a dinner
where several literary men were present, he mentioned to Lord
Lytton, who was not then in office, that the Confederation scheme
was one of the principal objects which had brought him to England.
Lord Lytton replied, ‘‘I presume that you have come not merely to
see that the British North American Atlantic Provinces should be
united. I hope you look forward to the greater Confederation which
will reach to the Pacific Ocean.’’
He (Hon. Sir George-É. Cartier) would now come to the Bill
itself. It was before the House, and they could examine it for
themselves. He invited the freest and fullest discussion on each and
every clause, but he would remind them that the Bill was in the
nature of a treaty, and consequently the Government would insist
upon the adoption of those terms as adopted in British Columbia—
that the amendment of one paragraph or one item of those terms
would defeat the whole project. He took this early opportunity of
informing the House of the fact. British Columbia had decided to
accept the Bill without amendments, though several members of the
Legislature of that colony had shown a disposition to amend theCOMMONS DEBATES
278
March 28, 1871
measure in some of its parts. The necessity of accepting this Bill as
it stood must be apparent to all. The population of British Columbia
was set down at 60,000, and it was certainly not below that number,
if the Indians and Chinese were included as well as the white. The
customs duty collected under the tariff of the colony amounted to
$350,000, which would give about twice as much per head for the
population as was collected in the Dominion. Each inhabitant of
Canada was supposed to contribute $3 to the Revenue per year,
while each inhabitant of the colony contributed nearly twice that
amount. It might be said that the tariff was higher than ours, but it
was not so much so as to make this difference if the population
were not there. The House would therefore, admit that the
Government did not err in estimating the population at 60,000.
The delegates of British Columbia wished to have the subsidy
placed at 80 cents per head for a population of 120,000, but on
being informed that it would be impossible to obtain the assent of
Parliament to such terms they allowed the population to put at
60,000. This was an opportune time to admit the colony into the
union, for it was desirable to extend the Confederation to the Pacific
as soon as possible, and on economical grounds it was advisable to
admit the colony into the Dominion before the increase of
population could increase the subsidy to a very large rate. Then
with respect to the clause providing for provisions it must be
remembered that British Columbia was a Crown colony. Under it
several officers were appointed for life, and they should be
provided for. The colony had laterally adopted responsible
Government which was to commence from the date of the union, so
that no future charges of this kind need be expended in the future.
There were very few such pensions to be provided for; the majority
of them would be employed under the Federal Government. Then,
with respect to the tariff, it was provided that they should retain
their own tariff, which was higher than ours, till the completion of
the Pacific Railway. No inconvenience need be anticipated from it,
and under the peculiar circumstances of the case it was necessary to
allow them to retain it.
Item eleven, relating to the construction of the Pacific Railway,
would no doubt provoke discussion. There were various unfounded
rumours with respect to this. It was not the intention of the
Government to construct the road, but it would be undertaken by
companies to be assisted mainly by land grants. It was not the
intention of the Government to burden the exchequer much to
obtain this railway. While this clause was under discussion between
the delegates and the Government it was proposed by the Dominion
that the colony should hand over a forty mile strip of land towards
the construction of the railway. That would be 24,000 square miles
of land, or 50,360,000 acres of land, not merely agricultural land,
but mineral land. Placing that land at $1 per acre, it would be equal
to a grant of $50,360,000 towards the construction of the railway. It
was proposed to give the colony $100,000 per annum, which,
placing the interest at 5 per cent, would be the annual interest on the
value of 2,000,000 acres of land, leaving the remainder to be used
by this Government. The railway, starting from Nipissing, would be
about 2,500 miles, 700 of which would pass through Ontario. They
did not expect to get entirely the 20 mile grant on each side of the
road, but they expect to get from the Ontario Government every
alternate lot on each side of the line for that 700 miles. That would
give 9,000,000 acres of land from the Ontario Government.
Starting from Lake Nipissing it would connect with the Ontario
system of railway and with the Quebec system of railway through
the Ottawa Valley. They were prepared to give it to any company
which would undertake the construction of the line, with a capital of
twenty-five millions of dollars, which with interest at 5 per cent,
would represent $1,500,000 per annum. The hon. member for
Sherbrooke had recently remarked that the certain increase of
receipts from customs and excise was at the rate of 5 per cent per
year. At that rate, taking the customs at $10,000,000, the increase
would be $500,000, and on excise, taking the receipts at
$5,000,000, $250,000. That would give a total from these two
sources alone to meet $1,500,000 per annum, a sum of $750,000.
He knew it would be argued that this railway would cost between
one and two hundred millions of dollars, if not more.
Mr. RYMAL: How much do you estimate the cost at?
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER would compare it with the
American Pacific Railway, which from Omaha to the Pacific was
1,775 miles in length. That railway was aided by land and money
grants, and cost $50,000,000. The Canadian Pacific Railway would
be about 700 miles longer. Yet he would place the cost at double
the rate of the American Pacific Railway, and the utmost cost that
could be incurred would be $100,000,000. But whatever it would
cost, he would assure the House that there would be no taxation on
the country more than existed at present. (Cheers.) A certain portion
of the public lands had been reserved for the Indians, and the only
guarantee that was necessary for the future good treatment of the
Aborigines was the manner in which they had been treated in the
past. Now, having glanced at the provisions of the Bill he would
call the attention of the House to the fact that while our neighbours
had taken sixty years to extend their borders to the Pacific, the
young Dominion would have accomplished it inside of ten years.
And look at the importance of the extension. We need a seaboard
on the Pacific if ever this Dominion was to be a powerful nation in
the future, and what more convenient time could there be for this
union than at the present time? He concluded by an allusion to the
splendid position which England had attained by the development
of her marine power, and that even Prussia, notwithstanding the
triumphs she had lately won, must be content to take a second place
beside the great maritime power of England. The hon. Baronet
resumed his seat amid loud cheers.
Mr. BOLTON said that the House was hardly prepared to enter
on the discussion till it heard from the Finance Minister a statement
respecting the financial results of the matter now submitted to the
House. It was mainly as a financial measure that the House would
have to consider this measure. The Minister of Militia had stated
that this railway was to involve no new burdens on the taxpayers.
The House was entitled to hear, from the greatest financial
authority in the House, a statement showing how that would
have to be reached without involving additional burdens onCOMMONS DEBATES
279
March 28, 1871
taxpayers. This was a question that met the House in limine, and
should be explained by the Finance Minister.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS had not expected at this early
period to go into the financial aspect of the question. As to the
railroad, the idea had been that it could be constructed by a
liberal land grant and liberal money subsidy. It was not expected
to bring this subject forward this session. But various plans
would be considered and proposed to capitalists, including land
grants. The money change was estimated at one million to a
million and a quarter dollars per annum, which would not
involve additional Dominion taxation. No capitalists were likely
to survey the road at their own expense. Government thought it
necessary that they should assume the responsibility for survey
and location of line, this expenditure to be afterwards made by
first charge in the road. The charges to the Dominion in
connection with British Columbia were estimated at $460,000 a
year, and the revenue from all sources about $360,000 leaving
an annual charge of about $100,000 upon Canada.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS in reply to Mr. Jones, of Leeds
North and Grenville North, said the road would cost about one
hundred millions of dollars.
Hon. Sir A.T. GALT said the admission of British Columbia
into the Union was desirable to all parties, the only question
being as to the terms upon which it was to be based. He was
willing within two restrictions to accept any terms with this
object. The first involved the avoidance of the violation of any
constitutional rights of the people of that colony, and the second
the abstaining from the imposition of onerous burdens on the
people of Canada. In view of the many important public or
natural works claiming our attention, it behoved us to guard
carefully against unduly augmenting the demands upon our
resources. Not only had railways and canals and other works to
be provided for, but the defence of the country, according to
past contracts and legislation. Now there was no doubt that the
union of this colony and the Dominion would be productive of
little benefit—would probably, but prove a source of fruitless
expense unless it could be also united by means of a good
railway communication. That was why a railway had been made
one of the terms of the compact. But its conditions necessarily
required consideration. We should have to take care not to
cripple the powers and means of the Local Government by those
conditions, in regard to future enterprises. While it was
desirable a road to our Western territory and through the colony
should be made for the settlement of that vast region, the Local
Government should not be deprived of the means of securing
works of local value and promise.
The object of the House then should be the creation of this
needed communication in conditions not antagonistic to British
Columbia local improvements, without provisions for which we
could not expect it to enter the Union. The resources of that
country naturally presented themselves to our notice in this
connection. What were they? A reliable authority in British
Columbia lately stated the population at 10,000 whites and
40,000 Indians. Now these aborigines should not be placed on
an equal footing with the whites for the purpose of framing the
financial basis of the Union. They could not be regarded as the
equals of the whites for revenue purposes at least. The imports
and exports also deserved our notice. The exports were
principally furs, lumber and some gold and coal. The imports
included articles dutiable in Canada, besides breadstuffs and
such like commodities, from which the bulk of the revenue was
derived. In 1867 the total amount was estimated at $537,000, of
which the customs yielded $350,000. The Dominion would
receive this, the remainder arising from excise and amounting to
over $150,000 falling to the Colony. The present terms of the
Union were considerably less advantageous to Canada than the
former both as regards the railway and other matters. Before it
was left optional with us when we should commence the work,
which, however, was to be completed within a reasonable
period, but the subsequent conditions required the
commencement of the road within two years and its completion
within ten. We might have finished the work within ten years,
but were not compelled to do it. The cost of the road would be
very great, one hundred million being the Government estimate,
and a considerable proportion of this amount must come from
the Dominion exchequer. The present engagement as to time
was much beyond what British Columbia asked at first, and in
the second place the road was rendered more burdensome from
the extension to Nipissing, further than at first spoken of. The
present terms were enormously more burdensome to Canada
than the former. The estimated revenue from Columbia was
$386,000, and payments by Dominion $536,226 apart from
indirect engagements. But this revenue from British Columbia
depended upon maintenance of its tariff.
The result was that the colony would receive $150,000 to
$170,000 a year from Canada for Union, including in trade
guarantee for the works at Esquimault. He would not object to
that price for a political union, and did not think it too great an
equivalent for valuable lands extracted from the colony for the
railway. But there were other conditions of a serious and
objectionable nature in view of our circumstances and prospects.
He objected to the hands of the country being tied as to the
period within which the Dominion should commence and
complete the railway. As it was, after the British Columbia
delegates came to Ottawa, Canada’s obligations became
enormously enhanced. If the colonists did not command this
condition as compensation for the reduction of the estimate of
population from 120,000 to 60,000, or to provide means needed
for local purposes, why should our Government have voluntarily
assumed this serious obligation not at first proposed. He
deprecated interference with one of the principles of our
constitution, namely, representation by population, by these
resolutions. He indicated the evils of admitting colonies or
territories on the footing of present members of Confederation.
The American territorial system presented an attractive
contrast with ours in this respect. If not admitted till theyCOMMONS DEBATES
280
March 28, 1871
reached a certain stage of growth and development, they would
have certain local works completed not necessary to be assumed
by the Dominion. At present, to admit such Provinces as British
Columbia we had to depart from this principle of representation
by population to give the people proper representation, and
frame the financial basis of our Union to enable to newcomers
to carry on the Government, and other enterprises. One
important object for us was to avoid incurring obligations
oppressive to our people, who numbered but four millions. By
these resolutions they were threatened with a very grave
responsibility in regard to the early commencement and
completion of the Pacific Railway. He was certainly opposed to
terms of this kind, however desirous of extending the Union and
meeting the wishes of British Columbia. (Cheers.)
Hon. Mr. TILLEY referred to the remarks of the hon.
member for Sherbrooke as to the difference between the
requests made by British Columbia, and what was proposed to
be granted by the Government. He said the only difference was
as regards the communication, it being decided that there should
be a guarantee for the specific time of ten years, which would
allow ample time for the construction of the Railway, and the
Government had thought it better to limit the matter to ten years
instead of making a guarantee in perpetuity.
The member for Sherbrooke had stated that all British
Columbia asked for was a coach road connecting Fort Garry
with the Government roads of British Columbia and an
expenditure of a million dollars a year on a railway, and that the
proposition submitted by the Government was less favourable to
Canada. He entirely dissented from the hon. member on that
matter, on these grounds. When the road had been proposed it
had been found from enquiry and investigation that from the
high cost of labour and other charges that would have to be met
in constructing such a road within the stated time of three years,
that the cost would be very heavy, very heavy indeed, and in
addition to this it was coupled with a proposition that a railway
should be built as soon as practicable, and that there should be
an annual expenditure from the commencement of a million of
dollars.
Under these circumstances the Government had held that any
expenditure on a coach road was useless, and one that was not
required, inasmuch as all the traffic would be taken by the
railway as soon as completed. Taking this view therefore the
Government had at once dissented from the proposition of
British Columbia, and would not agree to it. The Government
had also considered it unwise to consent to an annual
expenditure of a million of dollars from the commencement
without having any particulars as to the difficulties that would
be met with, and had rather preferred that the whole work
should be undertaken in a reasonable specified time,—as they
thought a proper survey should be made, and the work then
completed as speedily as possible. Then again the propositions
of British Columbia had been changed in respect of
representation in the Dominion House of Parliament. Reverting
to the matter of the railway, he said the House had heard that it
was estimated that the money grant necessary to construct the
railway, in addition to the land grant, would amount to 1 and a
quarter millions per annum, but it must not be understood that
the expenditure of that sum of money was involved in the
proposition before the House. That proposition was simply to
admit British Columbia into the Dominion and connect her with
the Dominion system of railways, and it must be remembered
that the agreement entered into by the delegates at the
conferences at Quebec and London, was that the six Provinces
should be brought together, and also that the Red River country
and British Columbia should also be included in the
Confederation.
Such was the agreement, and happily, part had been
accomplished, for notwithstanding all the trouble, all the
anxiety, and all the difficulties that had arisen in connection
with the North West, he believed the conviction from one end of
the country to the other was that that country had been acquired
on very favourable terms. Well the next thing after getting
possession, was how to utilize it, and how could it be utilized?
Surely not by building coach roads, not by simply improving the
communication by water, no—the North West could only be
used to advantage by means of a railway running to the foot of
the Rocky Mountains, and the Government would not be doing
its duty to the Dominion unless it projected that work. It was
well known on the most reliable information, that in the valley
of the Saskatchewan and the Red River there was a tract of
Prairie Land, immense in extent, and magnificent in character,
and how could immigration be conducted to that country, how
could supplies be carried to settlers, how could the produce of
that country be brought to a market unless there was a railway,
and he did not hesitate to say that it had been the deliberately
expressed opinion of the House and the country, that as soon as
the country was acquired, a railway must be built to the foot of
the Rocky Mountains. Believing this to be the determination of
the Government and the country, the delegates from British
Columbia came and submitted a proposition that that Railway
should be extended from the foot of the Rocky Mountains to the
Pacific, and he put it to the House and the Pacific, whether a
line could not be built to the Pacific, much cheaper, in
proportion, than one ending at the Rocky Mountains. The one
would be available for local traffic only, and very much larger
subsidies, therefore, would have to be paid, whereas a line
running from the Atlantic to the Pacific would receive a very
large amount of through traffic, and in addition to this, it had
always been contemplated and determined that there should be
such a line through Canadian Territory.
It had been stated both by the Minister of Militia and the
Minister of Finance that it was not considered that the amount
necessary for the construction of the railway, would involve any
increase in the taxation of the people of the Dominion, and he had
no doubt that that statement was correct, for taking the
calculations of the hon. member for Sherbrooke himself as a
basis, that the annual increase of the population of the DominionCOMMONS DEBATES
281
March 28, 1871
would be three per cent, (although when the railway to the Pacific
was completed, and the vast Territory of the North West opened
for settlement, there was no doubt the increase would be much
greater), he believed the additional revenue derived from that
increased population, irrespective of the increased paying ability,
estimated at two per cent by the member for Sherbrooke, would
be fully equal to all demands upon it without any increased
taxation. He entirely agreed with his hon. friend that it was
impossible to take large Provinces into the Dominion with a small
population, and acquire all their lands without giving them in
return the means of carrying out the local works necessary to
make the country attractive to emigrants, and how could it be
expected that the people of this large Province, twice the size of
Ontario, would be in a position to develop the resources of their
country without assistance—and that assistance was what the
Government proposed to render in the proposition before the
House? The member for Sherbrooke had said that he would have
preferred that the Government should have come down and have
asked a direct vote for that purpose, but he would remind the hon.
member that he had not been in favour of that mode, when it was
proposed with reference to Newfoundland. The delegates from
British Columbia estimated the population of their country, at
13,000 whites, 5,000 Chinese, and 45,000 Indians.
Then what was there to be got out of this country. At the
present time it cost from 12¢ to 14¢ a pound for all supplies sent
into that country, and no one could live there unless he earned $5
a day. If, however, the country were opened up, they would be
able to get supplies there as cheap as at Ottawa, and those who
now live on $5 a day would be able to live on $2.50 a day, and
there would very soon be a population which would yield a
revenue that would speedily compensate for the cost of the
railway. According to his judgment, seeing they had the North
West, and must develop it, there was no question but that the
Railway must be built, and even in a financial point of view,
although he did not assume to have anything like the knowledge
or experience of financial matters as was possessed by the hon.
member for Sherbrooke, he could not see that there would be any
difficulty. The line of railway would pass through magnificent
lands, and the proposed grant would give 50 million acres, leaving
every alternate lot which could be converted into a sinking fund
or some other mode for securing the amount of money granted,
and taking into consideration the probable increase of population,
the speedy settlement of the North West on its being opened up,
and the increased paying ability, he had no fear, and the
Government had no fear, that the people would be subjected to
any increase of taxation.
Hon. Mr. McDOUGALL (Lanark North): There are not forty
millions of acres of arable land in the whole North West Territory.
Hon. Mr. TILLEY said he was not sure as to the number of
acres, but the land would secure the building of the railway.
It being six o’clock the House rose.
AFTER RECESS
Hon. Mr. TILLEY resumed the debate. He had been pointing
out the difference between the proposition of British Columbia, and
that adopted ultimately, which he regarded as the more favourable
to the Dominion. In connection with the railway scheme he would
take issue with his hon. friend from Sherbrooke. By the
construction of the road the population of the Pacific coast would
soon be so increased as to pay for the cost of the road in a very
short time. A gentleman who had worked in the mines of
California, lecturing on this subject a few years ago, argued that
such a result would soon be attained by building the railway. The
hon. member for Sherbrooke was willing to give a subsidy to
British Columbia without admitting it as a Province for some time
to come. In making this admission, the hon. member gave up the
whole case, for, if he could not object to giving a subsidy under
such circumstances and without deriving every advantage from the
expenditure, he surely ought not to object when British Columbia
was ready to surrender her revenues to the Dominion. The increase
of the debt would not fall on the present population of the
Dominion alone. The evidence which the increase of the Western
States since the construction of railways through them, was that the
North West would soon be filled up with a population brought there
by the new railway which would soon pay for its construction. With
reference to the question of fortifications, he would say that he
hoped the result of the present negotiations at Washington would be
such as to prevent all necessity for the constructing such works. The
expense for local works would hardly amount to as much as the
hon. member for Sherbrooke estimated they would. Excluding the
annual sum of $100,000 for the land grant and the expenses of
Government, these charges would amount to a total of $361,300.
The revenue amounted to $363,400, which, of course, would
largely increase in the future. The difference, therefore, was not so
great after all. Even supposing that the local Government should
accept our lower tariff, the revenue would reach $308,000. The
$100,000 was, therefore, the amount of expenditure in excess of
receipts, and for this the Dominion received a large grant of
valuable land. Now, the question was, was the union of the colony
worth the cost? The Pacific Railway, already in course of
construction through the North Western States of the United States,
was being built without the expenditure of a single dollar. It was
being built by the land grants which had been made to the company.
But, the hon. member for Lambton said there were only 50,000,000
acres of good land to be settled in the North West. Admitting it to
be the fact, what difference did it make so long as it was settled.
That was the main point. Persons who had travelled through the
Fertile Belt had informed him that there was no engineering
difficulties to be met with this side of the Rocky Mountains, and
there could be no difficulty in getting a company to undertake the
construction of the railway. Having said this much, the case was
clear. The question was now, whether it was better to embrace
the opportunity to complete the Confederation scheme, or to let
this best chance of all pass by unimproved for consummating
the union. He could understand why Annexationists should be
opposed to this extension of the Union, but he could not
understand how the Independence advocates like the hon.COMMONS DEBATES
282
March 28, 1871
member for Sherbrooke could oppose it. He could tell hon.
members who did not approve of this scheme that delay was
dangerous, and if this chance to bring British Columbia was not
improved, that Colony might yet be absorbed into the American
Union.
Mr. BLAKE: How?
Hon. Mr. TILLEY said as the country was at present the
miners were obliged to pay enormous prices for the necessaries
of life and they were looking to their country for the means of
communication by which they were to be supplied at reasonable
rates. If Canada would not undertake it, they might look to the
Republic for help. (Hear, hear.) But this Union could benefit
Canada commercially, for the opening up of the North West and
the consequent increase of trade must bring an immense volume
of trade to Montreal and Quebec and the Maritime cities.
Everything conspired to make this Union a prosperous one and
he did not doubt that the House would sustain the measure
which was now submitted to them. (Cheers.)
Mr. MACKENZIE regretted that the hon. gentleman
opposite could not discuss this question for three quarters of an
hour without threatening the annexation of that colony to the
United States if this House rejected the present propositions.
Such a line of argument could only be indulged in by the hon.
gentlemen in order to create a feeling that the papers brought
down as agreed between the Dominion Government, and that of
Columbia is in the nature of a treaty that is not to be altered by
any proposition to be made in this House; if such were the case
it would be useless to discuss the question. In 1865 the
Parliaments of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick were
told the same story with reference to the resolutions which
formed the basis of Confederation, but those resolutions were
afterwards altered by the delegation at London, and he was not
prepared to accept these resolutions in the nature of a treaty
which this House could not alter. He believed on the other hand
that it was essential for the future prosperity of the Dominion,
that this colony should be admitted into the Union and that there
should be the best possible understanding as to the terms of
admission to prevent future complications, and he should not be
prepared to acquiesce quietly in the resolutions which had been
prepared by the hon. gentlemen opposite. By these resolutions,
the basis of our political system would be violated as was done
in the case of Manitoba last session, and after the struggle which
had to be gone through to secure that basis, he should certainly
oppose any further attempt to alter it, that is representation by
population as regards the House of Commons. Some deviation
he acknowledged might be made in the Senate. The Hon.
Minister of Customs tells us that the population of Whites,
Chinese, and Indians is 60,000 in that country, but we have
never given representation under our system to Indians. If such
were allowed we could claim several more members for
Ontario. He would consent to a considerable grant of money to
carry on the Government of a new colony, and particularly of
such a difficult country as Columbia, and he would not show
himself less liberal than any other member of this House in
considering what ought to be done in the present case. In the
discussion in reference to Newfoundland, he preferred allowing
a sum to carry on the Government rather than make over the
public hands, as while the revenue was $3,000 per annum, the
cost of management was $6,000, and he took the same view
with regard to the land grant for the construction of the railway
to the Pacific.
From all he knew of the country after descending from the
Rocky Mountains the country was valueless for agricultural
purposes. The gold mines have certainly proved very
remunerative, but they are carried on by large companies, and
the large importations of breadstuffs into the colony
corroborated the barrenness of the land. He thought the
Government should be prepared to give every information as to
the mode they propose of constructing the Railway, and whether
any propositions had been received for its construction. He
denounced the Government for desiring to undertake the
completion of the work in ten years, and should certainly record
his protest against such an arrangement, and he considered that
to give such an immense grant as was proposed to any Company
would be to retard the settlement of the country, as was found to
be the case in the western States. He doubted very much if the
Province of Ontario would grant the land as anticipated by the
Minister of Customs, and if they did the greater part of it was
valueless for cultivation, and certainly would not realize $1 per
acre as estimated. The Northern Pacific road was largely built
by English capital before the land and money grant of the
United States was obtained, and the difficulties were not to be
compared to those which would be met on the Canadian
Railway.
The Canadian Pacific Railway would cost from six to seven
times as much as the Intercolonial, and he was not prepared to
involve the country so deeply. He then moved an amendment
that all the words after ‘‘that’’ be expunged, and the following
substituted,
‘‘the proposed terms of union with British Columbia pledge the Dominion to
commence within two years and complete within ten years the Pacific Railway,
the route for which has not been surveyed nor its expense calculated. The said
terms also pledge the Government of Canada to a yearly payment to British
Columbia, of the sum of $100,000 in perpetuity, equal to a capital sum of
$2,000,000 for the cession of a tract of wasteland on the route of the Pacific
Railway to aid in its construction, which British Columbia ought to cede without
charge, in like manner as the lands of Canada are proposed to be ceded for the
same purpose. This House is of opinion that Canada should not be pledged to do
more than proceed at once with the necessary surveys and after the route is
determined, to prosecute the work at as early a period as the state of the finances
will justify.’’
Mr. GRANT: I have listened with a very great degree of
pleasure to the broad spirited and statesmanlike observations of the
hon. Minister of Militia and Defence. Truly, this is the age of union,
in which we, as a people enjoying the fullest extent of freedom
under the eye and protection of the Mother Country, should come
together and realize the privileges of union in the widest and mostCOMMONS DEBATES
283
March 28, 1871
comprehensive sense. Last session the whole of the North West
Territory was brought into this Dominion by the almost unanimous
consent of the members of this House, owing to the very
satisfactory terms arranged by the Hon. the Minister of Militia and
Defence, and the hon. member for Lanark opposite. Today we are
taking into serious consideration the desirability of adding one more
link to the Confederation scheme by the taking in of British
Columbia. The time then is not far distant when we shall have a
greater degree of intercourse in trade and travel, and if possible a
greater extension of those principles of free speech which we now
enjoy with courteous personal consultation. These are the signs of
the times: these are the signs by which four millions of Her
Majesty’s subjects, scattered over this widespread country,
recognize the importance of self-government with a warm
allegiance to that sovereign who, though distant, dwells in the
homes and hearts of the people of this country.
It must be a source of great gratification to all interested in the
prosperity of this Dominion to learn today the terms upon which
British Columbia is to be admitted into the Union. That section of
country though remote as to position is an all important one from a
Dominion point of view. It possesses a most salubrious climate,
well known agricultural capacity, and as to value is entirely beyond
present computation both politically and commercially. In looking
over the statistics of 1868, I observed that there had been no
apparent increase in the population for that year beyond the children
born in the country, and notwithstanding the great numbers who
annually emigrate from Great Britain and various parts of Europe to
the North American continent, it is surprising that with all the
attractions of the Pacific section of British North America so few
emigrants should have found their way there up to the present date,
and more particularly so when we consider its climate, its soil, and
its resources, such as coal, iron, timber and gold. The vigorous
measures about to be adopted will doubtless be the means of
causing a greater tide of immigration than has been observed at any
time in the history of that country. An examination of the statistics
of the population of British Columbia shows the somewhat
remarkable fact that the male exceeds the female population by
about 277 per cent. Such an anomalous condition does not, that I
am aware of, exist in any other country at the present time—in
England, the United States and in Canada—precisely the reverse is
the case.
The wonder is that British Columbia should have attained its
present prosperous condition wanting in so great a measure so
material an element of success. (Cheers.) In 1863 British Columbia
was looked upon as being then, in a flourishing condition,
stimulated as it was to the utmost degree of intensity by the gold
fever. After a time, things in general assumed a more normal state,
and business on the whole gradually rested on a more substantial
basis. Farms became cultivated, immense herds of cattle were
raised, saw and grist mills were erected, and the lumberman’s axe
found its way into the magnificent forests of that country, in places
where a few years before such was scarcely dreamt of. Material
prosperity and general advancement are now taking the place of the
feverish gold excitement, which is gradually passing away. When
we become possessors of British Columbia, we shall have a most
magnificent inland sea of harbours such as between Vancouver and
the main land. It appears as if set apart by a special providence as a
depot for the shipping of the East, and as an entrance to the great
highway for all nations across the British American Continent,
doubtless in course of time, the trade of China, Japan and the
Asiatic Archipelago will centre there. This is the prize that was as
anxiously sought after in ancient as it is in modern times. Persia,
Assyria, Carthage and Rome prospered and held, in fact,
commercial supremacy while they controlled the trade of the East.
Venice, Genoa, Lisbon, Amsterdam and London each in turn held a
proud commercial position, while it catered up the luxuries of the
East for the Western world. This is the inheritance of the Pacific
Coast.
We, the people of this Dominion, have every assurance that Great
Britain has a warm interest in our prosperity. What better or more
substantial proof could we have than the expression of the
sentiment which only a few days ago flashed across the Atlantic
telegraph, that England would as soon think of having itself
annexed to the United States as to allow any portion of this country
be attached to the neighbouring Republic. Both England and the
United States are equally well aware that the time has now arrived
when that power which shall be enabled to construct the shortest
route between Asia and Europe will hold the commercial
supremacy of this continent in its grasp. The great trade of the East
will not alone pass through the Suez Canal and the Red Sea. This is
the prize which we as a people must look forward to, and certainly
it is one which is well worth the endeavour to obtain. An able
English writer remarks that the great benefit to be derived from the
experience of the past is the application of its teaching to the
present. Thus, in taking a retrospective view of Confederation, and
the benefits arising out of it, even although the time is short since its
inception, we must be congnizant of the fact that day by day we are
becoming more intimately associated as a people, co-operating in
every way that is possible to develop our resources. During the
early discussions on the subject of Confederation, a frequent
expression was ‘‘whither are we drifting.’’ This was reiterated until
at last it became irksome and unworthy of attention. The only
sentiment which seemed in any way likely to form with it a twin
was the theory of independence. Both of these have had their day,
and now I feel satisfied that the impression of everyone who takes a
warm interest in the welfare of our country is that both these ill-
judged sentiments have gone down unhonoured and unsung.
Fortunate is it that trade has a natural and inevitable power to
rectify itself. For a time after the repeal of the Reciprocity Treaty
this country was put to a moderate degree of inconvenience;
however, the master mechanical minds and the politicians of the
country, so accommodated matters and things in general as to tide
that difficulty over, and now a more prosperous state of affairs
exists than we have experienced for many years. As the result of the
vigorous policy of those in charge of the affairs of Government, we
are happy to recognize the very important fact that our Finance
Minister has been so exceedingly successful in his operations as to
have been enabled to bring down in his recent budget a surplus ofCOMMONS DEBATES
284
March 28, 1871
no less than two and a half millions of dollars! Truly our Dominion
under these circumstances cannot be suffering! Our merchants are
not embarrassed; our young men are not leaving the country to seek
employment in distant parts as formerly, and we have every
assurance that the farmers of the country are reaping the benefits of
their labour and industry in finding ready markets for their produce.
Still further evidences of the prosperous state of our Dominion are
found in the condition of our savings banks, the ordinary bank
deposits, the prosperity of our municipal institutions, our increased
and increasing railway traffic, our large importations and our
rapidly increasing exports. All these beyond doubt point
incontrovertibly to a flourishing state of affairs throughout our
Dominion at the present day.
When we review the commercial history of the British American
Provinces for the past thirty years, we notice that the progress of old
Canada dates from the Union of the Eastern with the Western
section and has followed the construction of Canals and Railways.
The present Canal system of Canada was brought to its present
condition, with all its imperfections the finest in the world—during
that period. Twenty years ago, there were only some fifty miles of
railway in operation in the Province. At present, the total number of
miles of rail is nearly 3,000—one of the lines is the second longest
on the Continent—the total cost of these works is nearly
$160,000,000—the total amount of their earnings cannot be less
than $13,000,000 annually. In 1841 when we commenced our canal
improvements the revenue of Old Canada was $1,283,000 or $1 per
head for every man, woman and child within its limits. In 1854, the
commencement of railway enterprise, it was $5,694,000, or $2 per
head; in 1866 it was above $12,000,000 or $4 per head. In 1850 the
population of united Canada was only 1,842,265, and the exports
some $30,000,000 or about $15.50 for every person. At present the
total population is over 3,500,000 and exports $120,000,000 or
nearly $35 per head. Or let us illustrate the subject by reference to
the Dominion. In 1843 the revenue was about $2,000,000, whilst at
the present time it is about $15,000,000, or about $3.50 per head of
the population. In 1806 the value of exports from all British North
America was only $9,287,940; in 1831 $16,523,579; in 1870 it was
$73,573,490. In 1851 the tonnage entered inwards by sea in all
British North American ports was 1,590,663. In 1870 the tonnage
entered inwards by sea in the Dominion was 5,796,663. In 1851 the
tonnage cleared outwards in all British North America was
1,583,104. In 1870 the tonnage cleared outwards in Canada was
5,619,745. In 1806, the aggregate tonnage of British America was
71,943; in 1850, 446,935; at the present time, it is upwards of
950,000.
The expenditures have kept pace with the receipts during the
period mentioned, and were devoted to a large extent to useful
public works indispensable to the material development of the
country. Our wealth, however, is increasing in a greater ratio than it
was at the time we entered into large expenditures for canals, and
our ability to go into important enterprises necessary to the
expansion of Trade and Commerce is correspondingly improved.
Before closing my remarks, I would wish to allude briefly to an
important union which took place some time ago in the North West
Country, and one which bears materially upon the prosperity of that
section as far as the fur trade is concerned. The Hudson’s Bay
Company is an association formed, as it is well known, of two
distinct elements, the stockholders who, as a company have other
interests apart from those of fur trading; and the chief factors and
chief traders known as the working partners of the fur trade portion
of the concern. The stockholders are the representatives of those to
whom, under the name of ‘‘The Company of Adventurers of
England trading in the Hudson’s Bay’’ was granted the charter by
King Charles II to trade furs, etc. in the Hudson’s Bay and adjacent
country. This company established a few posts near the shores of
the Bay, and for years confined their operations within
comparatively a short distance from the coast. In course of time
they advanced into the interior, where they came in contact with
other traders, of whom the most active were sent out by a company
having its headquarters in Canada and known as ‘‘The North West
Company.’’
For a number of years these two rival companies competed for
trade with such determination that not unfrequently when opposing
parties met a conflict took place, resulting in loss of life. Under
these circumstances it is not a matter of surprise that the business
was found to be carried on at a considerable loss to both parties in
consequence of which a Union took place. Since that time, business
has been carried on to the mutual benefit and satisfaction of all
parties concerned. The Factors, Traders and Officers in the service
of the Company, generally may be considered Canadians as hitherto
with but few exceptions, they have all either settled on the Red
River or come down to Ontario and Quebec. In dealing, therefore,
with this question of the Hudson’s Bay Company, it is to be hoped
that the interests of these people will not be overlooked. The Fur
Trade is a subject of no ordinary importance at the present time.
Instead of leaving the Indians at the mercy of whoever may come in
contact with them, there are but two alternatives, either of which,
according to the opinion of experienced men, if adopted, might be
made a source of large revenue to the Dominion. Of course it
cannot be expected that the company will continue the fostering
care with which it has hitherto treated the Indians in the trade
operations with them. The fur country may become flooded with
unscrupulous adventurers in consequence of which the company
will be obliged in a great measure to abandon the practice of giving
supplies to them. Without the usual advances in the autumn a great
number of the unfortunate people will be obliged to abandon
systematic fur hunting in order to devote their chief attention to pot-
hunting to support their families and prolong their own lives. It is
only in case of competition that there is danger of the Indians
suffering.
When in the control of a company it will be the duty of that
company to give proper supplies, which could not possibly be
accomplished with rival parties scouring the country, and it is
not unlikely that the scenes enacted half a century ago would
under such circumstances be revived. It appears to me that
some plan such as that adopted with regards to the salmon
fisheries of the Lower St. Lawrence might be applicable in
letting out the fur country of the North West. It is true that a
few individuals might thus control the trade, but such wouldCOMMONS DEBATES
285
March 28, 1871
be vastly preferable to leaving it open to all comers from all
parts of the world, which could not but prove exceedingly
injurious to the trade. The existing divisions of the country
into districts as recognized by the Hudson’s Bay Company is
of great importance, inasmuch as such districts have different
tribes—a very important fact both for the Indians and the
trade.
If not disposed of as the salmon fisheries the whole trade
might be managed by an experienced Board of Direction. This
would be the best for the country, and likely under all
circumstances most profitable. This trade is a subject of vast
importance, for it involves the living of fully 75,000 of our
fellow subjects, and nothing could be more desirable than to
direct the affairs of the Indians in such a manner as may be
generally acceptable to the chiefs of those great bodies. The
principle must be protection not extermination. Thus, the
Indians would become peaceable subjects, and warm adherents
to whoever would tend most towards the welfare of the
Northern fur trading country.
At the lowest estimate, the value of the exports, that is
including the fur obtained from British Columbia, would
amount to about $1,000,000 annually. This, if well managed, it
is supposed by competent authority would yield fully half that
amount to the revenue of this Dominion. As this whole matter
will no doubt receive the consideration of the Government, I
would merely say in conclusion that I trust the day is near at
hand when British Columbia will become part and parcel of
the Dominion. (Cheers.)
Mr. MASSON (Terrebonne) had always been opposed to
the acquisition of the North West, and to-night he heard from
the hon. member for Lambton that he had good reason for that
opposition. It seemed that, after all, there were only some
50,000,000 acres of habitable land in the whole territory which
was capable of sustaining a population of about two millions
of people, giving twenty-five acres to each person. A very
different state of affairs to what the House had been led to
believe existed. Now, after having acquired the unsettled four-
fifths of the territories there, the House was asked to take
possession of the remaining settled one-fifth. It seemed to him
that having got the worst part of the land, having pushed our
boundaries up to the verge of the wilderness, the House need
hardly hesitate about extending the Dominion to the Pacific.
Then, with respect to the railway, he believed it would be
better to construct it with as little delay as possible, and he
believed the Government policy to be the correct one.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT doubted whether $100,000,000 was a
sufficiently large estimate of the cost of constructing a Pacific
Railway 2,500 miles in length. The House should consider
well before taking upon the Dominion such a debt as they were
now asked to bear. The present obligations of the country
either actually incurred or to be incurred amounted to not less
than $130,000,000. Then they were asked to increase it
$6,000,000 by this measure, and besides the minimum cost of
the Pacific Railway, which was $100,000,000. This would give
a total debt of $240,000,000, which would place on each
family in the Dominion a debt of $125. The result would be to
ruin our credit at home and abroad. Then the Government
proposed to give to this railway a grant of land amounting to
100,000 square miles—a tract of country equal to the whole
New England States, or to New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio.
He believed if the people of British Columbia who had shown
such a liberal spirit in these negotiations were informed that it
would be physically impossible for this Dominion to undertake
the construction of a railway at a cost of from $100,000,000
and complete it within ten years, they would consent to a
modification of the terms proposed to this House. He was
strongly in favour of the Union and was willing to go as far as
it could safely be done to consummate Confederation by the
admission of this colony into the Dominion. But the House
should be careful before risking the safety of the
Confederation by incurring a burden of debt under which they
might sink.
Mr. YOUNG said that while he was a Unionist, he felt that
the measure before the House was objectionable. He was of
opinion that the Dominion should not seek to incur large
indebtedness to secure the admission of British Columbia into
the Union until all the Eastern Provinces were added to the
Confederation. Under any circumstances there were provisions
in this Bill which were objectionable. Chief among these was
the departure from the established principle of representation.
He referred to the proposed railway, and read from a report of
Mr. Fleming on the subject an extract to the effect that the
engineering difficulties to be overcome were startling in their
magnitude, while the cost of keeping the road in running order
would alone render it a formidable undertaking, being not less
than $10,000,000, and until the gross annual earnings of the
line should reach $14,000,000, the railway would not pay the
expenses connected with maintaining it. Speaking of the
financial aspect of the measure he quoted statements as to the
charges on the Government. And the revenue to be derived,
showing that British Columbia would receive $225,000 more
than she paid in, and even that calculation was contingent on
the continuance of the tariff now in force, which was very
uncertain. He maintained that these conditions were not fair to
the rest of the Dominion, and the result would be that the
finances would go back to the chronic state of deficiency that
had existed some years ago.
Mr. BLAKE desired to call the attention of the House to the
single point before it. As one who was always desirous that the
Union should be created, and that the express objects of the Union
Act, which contemplated the admission of British Columbia, should
be consummated as rapidly as circumstances and prudence would
permit. He retorted on those who had uttered it, the accusation that
he was desirous that the Union should be consummated. He had
been at a loss how an Administration basing its claim to public
confidence on professions of representing the Great Union PartyCOMMONS DEBATES
286
March 28, 1871
could come down to the House with a proposition which would be
fatal to the existence of confederation. A reference to public
documents, however, had convinced him that the true object of the
Administration must have been to destroy all present hope of a
Union on reasonable and prudent terms. His reason for this
conclusion was that the Department which was naturally charged
with the conduct of negotiations on this subject was under the
control of a gentleman who had, some time ago, in a letter to the
public of Canada, used expressions, which in him (Mr. Blake)
would have been called treason, and he could not but think that the
preposterous proposition of the Government with respect to the
Pacific Railway, was specially framed to defeat a Union with
British Columbia.
These observations were made by Mr. Howe, when he was about
to assume the position of Secretary of State. These being his
expounded views, written in a deliberate letter, who could wonder
that he was a party to bringing down a measure so iniquitous that
the House could not help rejecting it. No wonder then that Governor
Musgrave should have stated publicly that he was amazed at the
concessions granted by the Canadian Government. Were not hon.
members justified then, in asking for further information before
taking this irrevocable step. If this measure should become law, the
faith of the Dominion would be blighted and without the consent of
British Columbia could never break one jot or tittle these cast-iron
obligations. But the hon. Minister of Militia did not propose to
increase the taxation of the country. Let him then put it in the
bargain with British Columbia that no future misunderstandings
might arise in the fulfillment of our pledge. Hon. members opposite
had stated that they were willing to give 60,000,000 acres of land to
aid the railway, and to pay off the interest on the debt incurred by
the railway by the sale of lands in the North West. The Ontario
Government had found it advisable to make free grants of their
lands to settlers, instead of making a revenue from them, and the
Dominion Government would find it no less difficult to derive a
revenue from lands in the North West.
He (Mr. Blake) called upon every member in this House to
consider whether he was not betraying the interests of the Dominion
in ratifying this bargain which the administration of the day had
made. The fixed date of commencement and completion of the
railway were dead weights on the enterprise under which the
country was already staggering. They enhanced the difficulty of the
undertaking. Could any country expect more than a promise to
build this railway as soon as possible? Could British Columbia
expect more from this Dominion? He was an advocate of Union,
but under such terms as these, he considered it his duty to oppose it.
He did not blame British Columbia for these unjust stipulations, but
he blamed this Government for having stultified themselves by
making such proposals. No solid argument could be brought against
the view that the terms proposed by British Columbia and to which
the colony was content to submit, should have been accepted by the
Dominion Government. The amendment of the hon. member for
Lambton was not in opposition to the union. The Opposition did not
oppose the scheme but the unjust terms by which it was
accompanied, and he could not see how any lover of his country
should hesitate as to what course to take with respect to this
measure.
After a short discussion as to whether the debate should be
adjourned or continued,
Mr. BOLTON rose to explain his position with respect to this
measure, and opposed the Ministerial scheme.
The debate was adjourned, and the House rose at midnight.COMMONS DEBATES
287
March 29, 1871
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Wednesday, March 29, 1871
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 o’clock.
_______________
Prayers
_______________
AFTER ROUTINE
NEW MEMBER
Mr. SMITH (Selkirk), the newly elected member for Selkirk,
Manitoba, was introduced by Hon. Sir George-É. Cartier and Mr.
Simpson, and took his seat immediately behind Hon. Mr. Tupper’s
place.
Mr. MACKENZIE called attention to the fact that the hon.
member who had just taken his seat did so under an Act, the
confirmation of which was now being sought for at the hands of the
Imperial Parliament, and as doubts existed as to the propriety of any
member taking his seat under that Act, he thought that, following a
precedent set by Government themselves lately, the matter should
be referred to a Committee. This case seemed to demand the same
treatment as the Government had followed lately itself. The
Opposition divested themselves of all responsibility after having
given this notification.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said that the hon. member
who had just been introduced had taken his seat under an Act of this
House which had met with the sanction of the Imperial
Government, and which had not been disallowed or declared null
by any legal authority. Consequently if it was binding upon
anybody it was on this House, which had passed the Act. But, at the
same time, he might add, if any hon. member should raise a
question of privilege with regard to the assumption of a seat in this
House by the hon. member for Selkirk, the Government would be
ready to discharge their duty and advise the House with regard to
the law as it was to be applied in the present case. Until the present
law should be set aside the Government could not act otherwise
than they had done.
The subject was dropped.
a statement respecting confidential printing. Neither of these
statements had yet been presented.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said he would inquire the cause
of the delay, and let the House know why the law had not yet been
complied with.
* * *
INTERNAL ECONOMY
Mr. MACKENZIE called attention to the fact that no statement
of the appointments made under the commission for the internal
economy of the House had been laid before the House.
The SPEAKER said the information would be brought down.
* * *
MANITOBA CONFIRMATORY ACT
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that tomorrow the
House go into committee to consider certain resolutions for an
address to Her Majesty on the subject of the draft of a bill intended
for submission to the Imperial Parliament for the purpose of
removing doubts which may have been entertained respecting the
powers of the Parliament of Canada to establish provinces in the
territories admitted, or which may be hereafter admitted, into the
Dominion of Canada, and to provide for the representation of such
provinces in the said Parliament, and vesting such powers in the
said Parliament.—Carried.
* * *
ROCKWOOD ASYLUM
Hon. Mr. MORRIS moved that tomorrow the House go into
committee to consider a resolution to empower the Government to
treat with the Province of Ontario for the lease or sale of Rockwood
Asylum to that Province, any such lease or sale to be subject to the
approval of Parliament.—Carried.
* * *
RETURNS NOT MADE
Mr. MACKENZIE asked why the Government had not brought
down a statement of the allowances granted under the
Superannuation Act of last session. They should also have furnished
* * *
BRITISH COLUMBIA DEBATE
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said the debate on the British
Columbia resolutions would be resumed after recess this evening.COMMONS DEBATES
290
March 29, 1871
it was known that when the Ottawa and St. Lawrence had been
navigable, that canal had fallen into comparative disuse, and it
should be considered whether the amount annually expended
could not be saved. The opening of the Upper Ottawa would
conduce more than anything to developing and improving the
country, and was sorry the Government had gone no further than
propose to improve a few local works, as he thought they ought to
be able to initiate a distinct policy on the subject, making the
present appropriations a mere commencement of an ultimate plan. his colleague from Montreal. The Harbour Commissioners might
have done what they could, but if that body were differently
constituted, very much more might have been done.
Hon. Mr. LANGEVIN stated that the works being now
undertaken were really only part of the plan proposed by the
Commissioners. ____________
Mr. MACKENZIE was glad such was the case, and he asked
the serious attention of the Government to what he had indicated as
to the want of accommodation at Montreal. Those engaged in
developing the mineral resources of the West were daily
complaining on this subject.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said the defective arrangements
at Montreal certainly deserved consideration. He referred to the
Lake Ste. Marie Canal, and admitting its importance, he thought
that, considering the present negotiations at Washington, a plan to
construct that work would really be a doubtful policy. He read an
extract from the papers before the House, being a minority report
from Mr. Laidlaw, showing that as the recommendation of the
Commission was that the canal should be built on the same plan as
the Welland Canal, it would not be large enough for the vessels
passing through the American Canal, that no tolls would be
obtained, and would not be of the slightest possible use except in
case of war. Of course the Government had not adopted this view,
but they thought it inadvisable to proceed with the work at present.
Mr. MACKENZIE said that such were the facilities for
constructing the Canadian Canal that if it were built it would be
used at once to its utmost capacity, and he regarded Mr. Laidlaw’s
report as most puerile.
Mr. WORKMAN spoke of the want of accommodation at
Montreal, and explained the way in which the Harbour was worked,
and he was sure that the Harbour Commissioners had done
everything that could be expected of them. As to the petroleum, the
absence of shipments arose from the transfer of the article itself, but
as regarded the staple products of the country, matters were
conducted more cheaply, more efficiently and more expeditiously
than at any other port on the continent, and he had heard many
captains of vessels testify to such being the case. Of course he
would not object to Government aid but certainly he would not ask
for it.
Mr. RYAN (Montreal West) thanked the member for Lambton
for having drawn attention to the matter, but could not agree with
The Committee rose, reported progress, and asked leave to sit
again.
It being six o’clock the House rose.
AFTER RECESS
FREDERICTON AND ST. MARY’S BRIDGE
The Act incorporating the Fredericton and St. Mary’s Bridge
Company was passed through Committee, Hon. Mr. GRAY in the
Chair.
* * *
THE BRITISH COLUMBIA DEBATE
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved the resumption of the
adjourned debate on the proposed motion that the Speaker do leave
the chair, for the House to go into committee of the whole to
consider certain resolutions respecting the admission of British
Columbia into union with Canada, and the motion of Mr.
Mackenzie in amendment thereto.
Carried.
Hon. Mr. GRAY resumed the debate. He said that it mattered
little how this House might regard the measure unless they were
backed up by public opinion, and that opinion was greatly affected
by statements made in this House. The measure should be viewed
by the light of the ledger, in the practical light of the present day,
rather than in the light of the past. This House should regard it too,
in the light of the experience of the neighboring Republic, and see
how we might profit by it. As had been observed by the hon.
member for Sherbrooke, there were two precautions to be taken.
The constitution was in no way to be infringed and the Dominion
was not to incur a financial burden too heavy to be borne. In this
view, he believed every member in the House concurred. And first,
with regard to the objection urged against the representation of
British Columbia that it was too large, he would say that the British
North America Act did not limit representation to the white
population but even if it were so limited, the number of
representatives under the circumstances of that Colony was not too
great. When the Manitoba Act was passed last session exception
was taken in the debate to the representation given to the new
Province, but the reply was that the expected increase in the
population would, within a very short period, be proportionateCOMMONS DEBATES
291
March 29, 1871
to the representation. This view was not disputed by the hon.
member for East Toronto, or by his hon. friend from Bothwell.
Mr. MILLS: I did dispute it.
Hon. Mr. GRAY would quote from the hon. member’s own
speech to show that he had not objected to it.
Mr. MILLS said he would not accept any report made last
year as a correct one.
Hon. Mr. GRAY would quote from the Globe report, which
the hon. member would hardly object to. The passage of the
hon. member’s speech referred to, contained the following:
‘‘The representation was based no doubt, on the expectation of
an immediate increase of the inhabitants, but he contended that
it would be better to give representation to the number of
people, increasing the number if it was thought best, every two
years, or leaving to the local legislature if they thought it
better.’’ Here was the expression of opinion from the hon.
member, and thus, though the point was raised, there was no
record on the journals of the House, no action taken, no
resolution or amendment moved to show that the representation
of Manitoba was unconstitutional. The objection that was taken
in debate last session by the hon. gentleman was as to the power
of the Parliament to give representation at all—not as to its
numerical character.
Here then was a precedent for this case before the House—a
precedent established by the House itself. He had no fear that
the smaller Provinces would be overridden through this Act. If
the representation were to be based strictly upon population
according to the law as at present interpreted by the hon.
member for Bothwell, British Columbia would have but one
representative, if any. Now, in that colony there were two
separate and distinct interests, the insular and continental. The
country was divided into two sections, Vancouver Island and the
main land. If the colony were permitted to send but one member
to this House, which section would he represent? He could not
represent both very well, and one of them would remain
unrepresented. It was clear, therefore, that no other course could
have been adopted with reference to this point, than that
embodied in the measure before the House. The position he took
with reference to this question was this, that until the Province
became a member of the Federal compact, it would not be
governed by the provisions of the British North America Act.
That the terms and conditions on which British Columbia came
in were to be agreed on, and if it as an independent province she
chose to say her interests required our representatives in the
House, she could, and there was nothing in the British North
America Act to prevent our acceptance of such a proposition,
but after she came in, her future representation must be
governed by the 31st section of the British North America Act,
and must revolve like that of the other Province, around the
representation of Quebec as a pivot. In accepting her therefore,
as set forth in the resolutions in that respect there was no
infringement of our Constitutional rights under the British North
America Act, and thus the first point stated by the member from
Sherbrooke was complied with. For it must be assumed that if
there were other important constitutional objections they would
not have escaped the acumen of the member for Durham West.
The next point was as to our capability to enter upon the
contemplated arrangements respecting the Pacific Railway. The
necessity, of course of communication with the Pacific was
admitted by every hon. member who had spoken on this subject.
The Government did not propose to build the railway
themselves, but it would be done by companies, and if the land
grants should prove nearly as valuable as it was alleged they
would, the cry of one hundred millions which was used to create
so much alarm would prove to be a mere bugbear. With regard
to the part of the line falling in Ontario he was not prepared to
speak, but with respect to the other portions he desired to say
something. The hon. gentleman here described the mode and
means by which the Pacific Railway from Omaha to Sacramento
was built, shewing the companies, the land grants, and
Government Bond subsidies in aid, describing the character of
the country, and the difficulties which met the constructors of
the road, the unstable nature of the soil about the Missouri
River, the arid character of the American desert, and the Alkali
plains, the elevation of the passes of the Rocky Mountains, and
of the Sierra Nevada Range, and went on to explain how the
Government Bond subsidies were divided, increasing
proportionately with the cost of construction of different parts
thus preventing the Government aid being entirely used on the
easy gradient, and thereby obviating further calls on the
Government. The American Government had divided the
subsidy, giving one amount for the easy part of the line, and a
larger amount for the difficult sections. The whole bond subsidy
amounted to fifty-eight millions, and in addition a land grant
was made of alternate lots of 20 miles along the route. The cost
of the entire road had also been largely increased to the extent
of twenty millions by a stipulation that no rails should be used
except those of home make,—a limitation which would certainly
not be imposed by us—as our rule was to buy in the cheapest
market.
Hon. Mr. McDOUGALL (Lanark North) said he supposed
steel rails would be used.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER: The hon. gentleman
knows better.
Hon. Mr. GRAY resumed his description of the construction of
the American line, and the difficulties met with in that work. He
quoted from a speech of the member for Lambton made last session
during the Manitoba debate, shewing that the Canadian line would
pass through an infinitely better country than that through which the
American line had passed.COMMONS DEBATES
292
March 29, 1871
Mr. MACKENZIE said his words had applied to the portion
lying between Red River and the Rocky Mountains.
Hon. Mr. GRAY said he admitted that he had spoken in that
limited sense, but that covered 1,400 miles of the distance. As the
American line had been built at an expense of sixty millions, what
fear need there be as to the cost of the Canadian line, which would
pass through an infinitely better country, and the elevation to be
attained would be much less. (The hon. gentleman here read
extracts of Cheadle & Milton’s work, shewing that whereas the
highest elevation of the American line was 7,400 and 8,000 feet
above the level of the sea, the Jasper House or Yellow Head Pass
through the Rocky Mountains, with us was only 3,760 feet, with a
gradual slope on either side; and also showing the nature and
character of the country on this side of the Rocky Mountains, and of
the valley of the Fraser River on the other.) It had been alleged that
the line must necessarily be built within ten years, and that if a
company would not undertake it, the Government would be obliged
to do it.
Now, the Americans had built their line in three and a half years,
and could it be supposed that the Canadians were so inferior that
they could not build a line of comparatively easy construction in ten
years. And in the light of the experience of that country, how could
it be said companies would not be found to build the line. British
Columbia possessed every means of becoming one of the most
prosperous Provinces in the Dominion, and indeed its union had
been one of the stipulations of, and inducements for Confederation.
He then spoke of the prosperous condition of the Dominion at
present, to show that Canada need have no fear of the responsibility
it was proposed to incur, and referred to statistics to prove his
position.
The Member for Durham West had based his statements that
Canada could not bear the burden to be laid on her, under the
impression that the Dominion would have to pay one hundred
millions, but that was not the case. There was a vast difference
between the burden of a work of that amount—say 100,000,000
borne by various parties—public Companies—land grants and aids
of different characters—and the cost of the same work borne by one
exchequer. It was not intended that the exchequer or revenues of
Canada should bear the charge of the work, but simply that they
would aid it. If Canada should refuse to give this aid, the work
would pass out of her hands, British Columbia would not be
included, and the Dominion, instead of becoming a great and
leading power on the continent, and advancing in material wealth
and prosperity, would revert to its old position of discontented and
opposing Provinces, small and insignificant—the worse for having
thrown away the opportunities which had been afforded her.
Mr. JOLY said when he had listened to the discussion, he could
not help thinking of the fable of the frog and the ox. The frog had
admired the size of the ox, and deciding that it was its duty to
become as large as the ox, it went on swelling until it burst, and
when he had heard the description and glowing terms of the
Minister of Militia, he thought he could see the Dominion swell like
the frog. It was very fortunate the Pacific made a boundary to the
land to be annexed, although it was true China and Japan were
beyond, and perhaps the Pacific might yet be made a Canadian sea.
When the Minister of Militia had named fifty-two millions as the
cost of the railway, he could only have referred to the cost to the
Dominion, and in the same way the population had been much
exaggerated.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said he had stated the
population correctly at 63,000, being 15,000 to 17,000 Europeans,
some 5,000 Chinese and the remainder Indians.
Mr. JOLY must, of course, admit his mistake. He could not
consider the railway a Canadian but an Imperial Policy, and, of
course, it was natural that England should desire to see British
North America confederated and independent of the United States,
and if that was her desire, the best thing she could do would be to
aid in constructing this line of communication. The great advantage
Canada possessed over the States was her freedom from debt and
taxation, but if, to the present debt of $100,000,000 was added
another $100,000,000 for the construction of the railway, the debt
of Canada would become in proportion almost as large as that of the
United States, and Canada would lose her only advantage. He came
to conclusion that an additional debt of $100,000,000 would be
mentioned on account of the construction of the railway, from the
remarks of the member of the St. John. The Americans had paid
fifty-eight millions of dollars as a subsidy, and had made twice as
large a land grant; the money grant would have to be larger. For
years to come, the line could not pay a tenth part of its cost, and no
Company would undertake it unless they received every assistance,
for the line would not obtain anything like the traffic that the Union
Pacific obtained, and he believed the result would not be that the
Government itself would have to build the line. As to the time that
would be required to build the line, if the same energy were shown
as had been exhibited in the construction of the Intercolonial, the
Pacific would take twenty years. Why not say to British Columbia,
‘‘we are willing for you to join us, but we cannot pledge ourselves
to this heavy expenditure—but if British Columbia only wanted to
see which country, Canada or the States would give them the best
terms, he, for one, was not prepared to buy them that way.’’ The
present position of Canada and the States to each other could not
last much longer, and if more friendly relations should be
established, why should not Canada avail herself of the Northern
Pacific road until she was able to build a line for herself.
Mr. JACKSON was glad to see the unanimity of belief that
union with British Columbia was a necessity, and that the
construction of a line of railway was also a necessity. It had been
conceded that the amount to be granted to British Columbia was not
extravagant, but objection was taken as to the mode of payment.
Objection had also been raised that the proposed representation was
too large for the population, but looking at the matter in a common
sense view only, although the abstract principle of
representation according to population might be right, he
thought area should enter into the arrangement, and he sawCOMMONS DEBATES
293
March 29, 1871
nothing in the objection. As to the objection of the railway
having to be constructed in ten years, British Columbia was to
be taken into the Union, and the understanding was that the
whole Dominion should be connected. The responsibility
might be great, but in all agreements certain conditions were
implied, which might operate to change the agreement. If the
present prosperity continued, there was no reason to doubt the
ability of the Government to construct the railway within ten
years, but if circumstances should prevent that, what danger
could ensue? He should certainly support the resolutions of the
Government on the grounds he had stated.
Some years ago he had entertained doubts of the success of
Confederation, but he was very glad to see how satisfactory
the results had been. He thought the definitiveness of the
proposition for the construction of the line, would obtain for it
greater consideration and greater confidence on the part of
English capitalists. He would not try to foreshadow the future,
but there was every reason for hope. The member for
Lotbinière had said that the increased responsibility would
make Canada’s debt equal to that of the United States, but the
view was most erroneous, for while the Canadian line would
open up a splendid country and consolidate the country, the
Americans had only destroyed property and desolated homes
without result.
Mr. MILLS would not have spoken but for the remarks of
the member for St. John. That hon. gentleman entirely
misapprehended the system of Government provided by the
British North American Act. He disputed his reading of the
constitution as affecting powers and duties of Canada in
relation to the colonies to be admitted into the Union. He had
contended the Indians should be embraced in framing the basis
for representation. That had not, however, been done as
regards the other Provinces. The Indians did not enter into the
social bond, and could not stand on the same footing as the
white population. The member for St. John argued that
because the principle of representation by population had been
violated in the treatment of Manitoba, it should be in the case
of British Columbia, and he had stated representation by
population was not the principle established by the
constitution, but the Union Act plainly showed it was and the
representation was to be altered every ten years in harmony
with the growth of the country and population, and in a
prescribed relation to the sixty-five members always to be
possessed by Quebec.
In answer to the member for St. John, he contended that the
phraseology of the Union Act proved that the terms applicable
to the four Provinces of the Confederation as to representation,
applied also to the Provinces after-admitted. The Union could
be extended only on the federal principle, and the principle he
now contended for governed his objections to the Manitoba
Bill last year. He held now as before that the very principle of
our constitution was violated in the terms we granted that
Province last year, that we had no authority to grant her
representation beyond that to which by population she was
entitled. So much for the precedent cited by that hon.
gentleman. He did not believe British Columbia would
complain of our altering terms before us in obedience to our
reasonable wishes and interests. If she was prepared to accept
reasonable terms he would not oppose her entrance into the
Union. If she was not so prepared, it would simply show the
time had not come for her admission.
As to the remark that we ought to be able to construct a
railroad in less than ten years, and that the Americans
constructed theirs in three years and a half, it was apparently
forgotten that their railroads previously extended a thousand
miles further west than ours, that they had thirty millions this
side of the Rocky Mountains against our four, and had a large
population on the Pacific coast and infinitely greater resources
on both sides of the Rocky Mountains than ours. He would
like to know how we could build it in ten years when at the
present rate of progress, and with our adequate means and
other advantages that Intercolonial would require seven years.
At its rate of construction, it would take 37 years to build the
Pacific Road. He was convinced we should not draw so largely
upon the future, should not incur obligations we had not
certainty of being able to meet. On this ground alone, were
there no other objections to the resolutions, he would be
disposed to oppose them. The geological survey of the country
was an incident of the local possession and management of the
lands, and it should be undertaken by the local authorities
alone.
We had no power to enter upon this work, the proposal of
which was another instance of irregular or illegal Acts we
were asked to perform. He would oppose the resolutions and
support the very proper amendment before the House.
Hon. Mr. LANGEVIN then proceeded to explain in French
the proposals and policy of the Government on this subject,
and to recite the circumstances that led to the submission of
this scheme, dating back to the period of Confederation. He
reminded the House that these terms had been accepted by the
Legislative Assembly of British Columbia on the
understanding that they would not be altered by the Parliament
of Canada. In reply to the hon. member for Sherbrooke and
other gentlemen, he contended that the present terms were not
less favourable to Canada than the former, because in the first
instance the colony was to have four senators at Ottawa and
eight Commoners, while now she was allowed but three of the
former and six of the latter. With regard to the railway, he
urged that there was no comparison between the Intercolonial
and the Pacific road, because it would not be undertaken by
the Government but by a company upon the basis of a liberal
land grant and an annual payment of money within the means
of Canada, and without augmenting its debt.COMMONS DEBATES
294
March 29, 1871
Mr. GEOFFRION: Suppose you don’t find a company?
Hon. Mr. LANGEVIN: Who could doubt their finding a
company with the double inducement of land and money,
when in the States and other countries railways were begun
and completed on the basis of land grants only? We were
bound, irrespective of British Columbia, to construct a railway
to the Rocky Mountains, certainly through a magnificent
country for hundred of miles; but what would be the use of
stopping there? Would it not be to a certain extent money ill-
spent, when the road stopped short of the natural boundary of
the Dominion, of the natural ocean outlet on the Pacific? Our
interests undoubtedly dictated that prolongation. He
maintained that in a revenue point of view Canada would not
lose by this measure, for, as he had pointed out, the
consumption of dutiable goods per head of the population was
much greater that in Canada. There was already a population
of 60,000, including Chinese and Indians, many of whom were
civilized and useful inhabitants. He denied the statement of the
member for Lotbinière that we already owed $100,000,000,
our debt being but $80,000,000, and as the Government
intended having the railway built by a private company they
would incur nothing like another hundred millions of debt.
As to the pension list, several of the recipients could be
made useful to the Dominion as public officers. It was absurd
to suppose Canada could depend on the American Northern
Pacific Railway, and if we wished to extend our population
and trade and colonize our vast Western region, we must
possess a railroad through our own territory, instead of
travelling westward by one 100 or 200 miles from our frontier.
It was necessary to satisfy the Columbians, as well as to give
confidence to British capitalists, that a period should be fixed
for the completion of the road; but if in seven or eight years it
should appear with representatives from that Province sitting
among us, that despite our good faith and utmost efforts it was
impossible to complete the work within the time named they
could not and would not find fault with us. He did not
anticipate any failure, but looked at the worst contingency. He
believed it was our duty and our interest took to complete
Confederation and establish a British empire in North
America, with the freest institutions in the world, under the
British Flag now protecting us, and which would continue to
protect us so long as we desired. He believed his countrymen
of all origins and classes desired this result, and that trifling
difficulties would not induce them to abandon reasonable
effort for its attainment. British Columbia did not merit the
treatment proposed by the amendment and he hoped the House
would not refuse to adopt cheerfully the resolutions of the
Government. (Cheers.)
Hon. Mr. SMITH (Westmorland) thought the subject was
one of the greatest magnitude, and Government ought to have
absolved all parties to allow every one to give the matter the
freest possible consideration. He had at first done his best to
oppose Confederation but he was now friendly to the Union,
and would be glad to see the whole of British North America
united. There were two very important considerations—one
was that there was a great departure from the principles of the
constitution in the matter of the representation. With regard to
the financial aspect, however, he could not but believe that
lasting injury would be done to the country by the expenditure
to be incurred. The cost of the railway could not be less than
$100,000,000, and it was equivalent to the Imperial
Government asking England to embark in an enterprise
involving a thousand millions. Was not the matter, therefore,
sufficiently grave to merit the most serious consideration—and
he entreated the Government to pause. The faith of the country
was pledged by the resolution to complete the railway within
ten years, no matter if the result should be ruin. No verbal
reservations could have effect, the written record alone could
hold, and the words of the resolution were clear, and if in two
years the railway was not commenced, British Columbia could
appeal to the Imperial Government. They had been told that
the expenditure would not burden the people, but could that be
believed, and no one would undertake to say that a Company
would undertake the work as a remunerative scheme, and
therefore sooner or later, the Government would have to pay
every dollar of the expense, and the contractors would want
the land as a profit. No one could suppose that even after the
road was built, it would pay one tenth of its working expenses,
and how, therefore, could British capitalists be expected to
undertake the work.
The Minister of Customs had intimated that if they did not
strike quickly, they would alienate British Columbia from the
enterprise, but was that an element for discussion; no, if such
were the case, the matter belonged to the Imperial Government
only. Was the House ready to involve the country in so large
an increase of debt? That debt was already $100,000,000 and
there were many burdens that would arise from the
Intercolonial and other works. The Union Act had provided for
the extension of the Canal system and that had only been
delayed because of the deficient state of the finances of the
Dominion. The cost of the railway could not be named, it
might be much greater than the amount named and yet coûte
que coûte the country would stand pledged to complete it. He
should oppose the measure because it would impose burdens
on the people that they were not able to bear and would
involve the country in ruin and disaster.
Mr. RYMAL like the previous speaker, had not much faith in
the blessings of Confederation, and should oppose the present
measure, because he believed it violated their constitutional rights.
In the Confederation scheme the principle of representation by
population had been conceded, and yet that principle was now
being violated. The Minister of Militia himself represented many
times the whole number of white men in British Columbia, and
there were many similar cases in the House, and the thing was so
absurd and unjust that if it were the only objection, he would
oppose the scheme for while he asked nothing more than justice, he
would take nothing less.COMMONS DEBATES
295
March 29, 1871
As to the financial aspect the responsibilities about being
incurred, added to the cost of Intercolonial and the enlargement of
the canals, a debt of $300,000,000, would be incurred, which at five
per cent would involve an annual expenditure of $15,000,000.
Added to this there would be the yearly and ever increasing burden
of maintaining the railway, all of which would fall on the poor tax
payers. To use a well known phrase, he would say ‘‘whither are we
drifting,’’ and the only answer was that bankruptcy and ruin stared
them in the face, and the credit and good reputation of Canada
would be a thing of the past. The Minister of Finance had well nigh
ruined the country before, and he would do so again, if the present
Ministry retained their seats, and were led on by the Minister of
Finance. Language failed him to express his detestation of the
Government that thus prejudiced the good interest of the country,
and it appeared to him that the prospects of the Confederation were
being destroyed.
Hon. Mr. DUNKIN said the question proposed was the adoption
of resolutions for the admission of British Columbia into the Union,
and the objection raised in the amendment was a very narrow one.
No sufficient reason was given for the postponement proposed,
which was in effect the adjournment of the whole scheme. He
referred to the circumstances connected with Confederation, and the
feelings with which it was regarded at first, and after its
accomplishment. The experiment was tried, one of its express
objects being to bring in the British North West Territory, and
construct a Railroad from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and were they
now to hesitate, letting I dare not wait upon I would. He argued that
British Columbia and the North West could not be retained without
a railway. They had already incurred the greater part of the
expenditure, independent of British Columbia, and they must
advance; they could not recede. Without executing the policy these
Resolutions embodies we should expose ourselves, our present
constitution and national position. Not to advance was to go back
the whole distance. He argued that the road could be built to the
Pacific at a cheaper rate than one to the Rocky Mountains only, and
possibly for a smaller amount than to this point.
Mr. BODWELL rose to speak, but was interrupted by cries of
‘‘adjourn.’’
After a short discussion the debate was adjourned, to be resumed
tomorrow after recess.
The House rose at 12.50 o’clock.COMMONS DEBATES
298
March 30, 1871
PRIVATE BILLS
The following private and local Bills were read a second and
third time and passed:
Bill No. 45—An Act to incorporate the Isolated Risk Fire
Insurance Company, as amended by the Standing Committee on
Banking and Commerce—Mr. Harrison.
Bill No. 51—An Act to incorporate the Kingston and
Pembroke Railway Company, as amended by the Standing
Committee on Railways, Canals and Telegraph Lines.
* * *
BRITISH COLUMBIA
Mr. JONES (Halifax) resumed the debate on the Bill to admit
British Columbia into the Dominion. He moved that the following
words be inserted after the word ‘‘purpose’’ in the amendment:
‘‘The proposed engagements respecting the said Pacific Railway
would, in the opinion of this House, press too heavily on the
resources of the Dominion.’’ He argued that the Government might
well hesitate to enter into such engagements after the fears and
doubts expressed by the hon. member for Sherbrooke and other
fathers of the Confederation. But, the Government would do well to
hesitate if they desired to consummate the Union. There were other
colonies to be added to the Dominion. Newfoundland and Prince
Edward Island had yet to be brought in and it was not likely that
they could be induced to join the Confederation under less
advantageous terms than were now offered to the Pacific Colony.
Hon. members opposite argued that if the Dominion was not
immediately extended to the Pacific, the Western colony would be
absorbed into the American Union, but the hon. members were
adopting the very measures which would promote that movement.
The strongest argument against annexation had always been that
our taxes were light, that while the Americans had a debt amounting
to $60 per head, ours was not quite $27 per head of our population.
Let these engagements be entered into by the Dominion, which
were now before the House, and the result would be to leave us
with a heavier debt in proportion to our resources than at present
weigh down the American Union.
The cause of our prosperity hitherto had been the contrast
between the United States and the Dominion, but the Government
proposed to reverse the present position of the two countries. While
the Americans were paying off their debt and reducing their taxes,
Canada was about to incur liabilities too great for her to bear. He
referred to the immense charge which the construction of the
Pacific Railway would bring on the country. He asked the House to
take a business view of this engagement, and ask themselves should
the Dominion undertake it. (Hear, hear.) This extravagant proposal
was the natural sequence of the Finance Minister’s budget speech in
which that hon. member had spoken of the advantages of a great
national debt, and quoted from Macaulay in support of this view.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said he had not advocated the
creation of a national debt, nor had he quoted from Macaulay in
support of such a view. He had merely quoted the passage referred
to, to show how the great resources of England had enabled her to
surmount the difficulties of a great national debt.
Mr. JONES (Halifax): Then why refer to it at all. If the Hon.
Finance Minister had no intention to foreshadow the creation of a
great debt, why quote the passage? There was no doubt that the hon.
gentleman had that end in view, and the House should unite in
opposing such a suicidal policy.
Mr. BODWELL in seconding the amendment of the hon.
member for Halifax, spoke at considerable length against incurring
the heavy liabilities which the construction of a Pacific railway
would cause. He denied that there was any danger that British
Columbia would be annexed to the United States if it were not
brought into the Confederation. Did hon. members opposite
suppose that Great Britain would allow the republic to absorb any
portion of Her Majesty’s possessions without a struggle? If the
cause was so weak that the government was obliged to resort to
such an argument in order to coerce their followers into voting for
this measure, it would be better to drop it altogether. He quoted
from the speech of the hon. member for Brome in the report of the
Confederation debate to show how some of the advocates of this
measure had once been most bitterly opposed to Confederation.
Hon. Mr. MORRIS said it was most surprising, in looking back
on the past history of Canada, to see what great tasks had been
accomplished. The government had been taunted time after time
with not being sincere in the great work of building up a British
power on the Continent, but they could turn to their record, and
challenge their opponents on the other side of the House, by what
they had really done. Was it nothing that the Dominion already
stretched from the Atlantic to the Rocky Mountains! And now the
question was whether they should or whether they should not make
what had once been considered a dream a living reality, by doing
their utmost to weld the provinces from one ocean to the other into
one solid Dominion. He was surprised at the course taken by some
hon. gentlemen in the present debate, and especially at that taken by
the hon. member for Sherbrooke, who had formerly taken the
deepest interest in the question, and had spoken most earnestly in
favour of the union now proposed; and he was more than surprised
at the course of the hon. member for Lambton, who, though a later
convert to the benefits of Confederation, had, with his party, stated
that he should set himself to assist to establish and consummate the
work.
But now, after speaking so often of his zeal for union, placed on
record a motion which, while admitting the Pacific Railway to be an
‘‘urgent political necessity,’’ attempted to prevent the House from
entering on the discussion of, and adopting the proposed terms of
union. The member for Sherbrooke had dealt with the matter on a
broader basis than had more recently been introduced into the
debate, and, while admitting that he had no quarrel with the amount
of subsidy to be granted to British Columbia, stated that he wouldCOMMONS DEBATES
299
March 30, 1871
have preferred the terms originally proposed by British Columbia to
those now proposed by the Government. He was sure, however, that
that preference would not be shared by the House or the country.
The original terms had provided the building of a coach road within
three years of union, and that the railway also should be built as
early as possible, with a specified expenditure of a million a year.
The member for Lambton stated that he had never contemplated
anything more than a road from Lake Superior, but of what benefit
would such a road as that be.
He also told the House that he was opposed to locking up the
lands of the country by handing them over to a company, but he
(Hon. Mr. Morris) maintained that the course being pursued by that
hon. gentleman would lock up the lands for ever. How could the
lands be available for settlement and cultivation unless facility of
access was provided? The Illinois road, which had been used by the
hon. gentleman as an illustration of the danger of locking up lands
by handing them over to a company, was a proof that the very
reverse was the case, for the results of that road were that Illinois
was peopled rapidly, and the lands, instead of being locked up, were
almost entirely disposed of, for out of a grant of two and a half
millions of acres, only half a million remained in the hands of the
company. He asked the House seriously the nature and character of
the land proposed to be acquired. That land consisted of the United
Province of British Columbia and Vancouver’s Island, and no one,
who understood the matter, could deny that the addition of that
province would increase enormously the wealth, the resources, and
the prosperity of the Dominion. He had several extracts from works
on the country, showing its valuable nature and character, and
thought the member for Lambton was not justified in the remarks
he had used to the effect of there being scarcely any arable land in
the whole of British Columbia.
Mr. MACKENZIE stated that what he had said was that after
descending the slopes of the Rocky Mountains, the country was the
roughest on the continent.
Hon. Mr. MORRIS thought the construction he had put on the
hon. member’s remarks was not very far wrong, but he could state
on the undisputable authority of Mr. Trutch, the Surveyor General
of British Columbia, that taking the whole of British Columbia and
Vancouver Island fully one-third, or about 50,000,000 of acres was
good farming land, while the whole acreage of Ontario was
77,000,000 acres. It appeared to him that throughout the whole
debate a strange fallacy had existed. The Railway had been spoken
of as a mere bargain to induce British Columbia to enter the Union,
whereas that work was of more importance to Canada than it was to
British Columbia, for, having already acquired the great North West
they were compelled by force of circumstances to go forward and
render it a valuable acquisition, and he was convinced that if the
House turned its back on British Columbia by adopting the
amendment of the member for Lambton, it would do a grievous
injury to the cause of Confederation which might prove irreparable.
The present position of Canada was analogous to that of the States
some years ago, when that country, recognizing the importance and
necessity of communication from one side of its territory to the
other, both as a bond of union between the people of the east and
west, and as a means of securing the vast trade between Europe and
Asia, had taken steps which in a short time would result in three
different lines from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and the reasons that
had urged America should be equally powerful with Canada, and he
believed the Canadian line could be constructed in a satisfactory
manner, by means of the proposed land grand without in the least
degree overburdening the people.
The House in the course of the debate had rung with cries that a
debt of a $100 million was being incurred, but the speakers knew
well that by means of the land, the line could be constructed
without any approach to a burden that the people could not bear,
and no Ministry would ever dare to propose to incur such a debt as
had been spoken of in this case. The Northern Pacific was being
constructed on a land grand only, and could it be doubted therefore,
that Canada, with better lands and fewer difficulties, would be able
to devise such a scheme as would attract foreign capital, as the
Americans had done. The House must be aware that before a dollar
could be expended or an acre of land granted, a scheme would have
to be submitted to and endorsed by the House, and therefore the
whole matter would be within the control of Parliament. The
question was whether or not British Columbia should be invited to
join the Union, and whether or not the railway should be
constructed, and he believed that when the Union should be
accomplished and representatives from British Columbia should sit
in that House, there would be no doubt of the railway being
proceeded with as rapidly as the resources of the country would
admit. He had every confidence not only that the House would
endorse the proposition of the Government, but that it would be
approved by the people of the country also, and it would be a bright
day for the Dominion when the first sod was cut on the Canadian
Pacific Railway, and in time to come many of his friends opposite,
who were really desirous of consummating Confederation, though
they might now oppose this scheme, would rejoice that the
Government had not been deterred from following out the work, but
had persevered in their determination to carry forward the work of
union with the Pacific colonies.
Hon. Sir A.T. GALT would not again have spoken but for the
allusions made to him, but under the circumstances he felt bound to
express his views on the important question before the House.
Referring to the remarks of the Minister of Inland Revenue he
(Hon. Sir A.T. Galt) considered that the course he was pursuing
would tend much more to build up Confederation on a sound basis
than that pursued by the government, and that a policy of prudence
and foresight was more necessary for the future progress of the
Dominion than the unwise incurring of obligations now proposed
could possibly be. They should not lose sight of the real interests of
the country in rushing forward in the path, which, though all might
desire to follow it ultimately, if too hastily followed would defeat
the very object desired to be obtained.
As to the coach road proposed by British Columbia, involving a
useless expenditure of money, he maintained that the necessities of
the railway would require the construction of such a road so that itCOMMONS DEBATES
300
March 30, 1871
would have to be made in any case. As to the railway, the people of
British Columbia had only asked for an expenditure of a million
yearly, and even if that were continued in perpetuity it could not
represent more than twenty millions. Those people had never
presumed to demand that the line should be completed within a
given time, and the proof that they had not done so had been shown
by the Minister of Inland Revenue himself, who had argued that it
was Canada that wanted the railway and not British Columbia.
Hon. Mr. MORRIS stated that what he had said was that,
throughout the discussion, the matter of the railway had been
deliberately treated as if the whole benefits were to accrue to British
Columbia, whereas Canada also had an equal interest in the work.
Hon. Sir A.T. GALT said he could not admit the statement that
if the Government’s resolutions were carried, Parliament would still
retain the control of the matter. The details of the measure might
come before them, but the obligation would remain that the work
must be carried through coûte que coûte. Five years ago, it had been
decided that the Intercolonial Railway could not be undertaken
without an Imperial guarantee; five years ago, the Province of
Canada had to take a portion of the circulation of the country to
meet her floating debt; two years ago, the Government had to
borrow $2,500,000 from the Bank of Montreal, to enable them to
say that the money borrowed for the Intercolonial was still within
their control, and only one year ago, the Finance Minister had to ask
an increase of 5% on all duties to provide against a possible
deficiency of revenue, but yet, when it now fortunately happened
that we had a surplus, it seemed to be believed that this state of
things must continue, and that it was safe to incur any amount of
obligation. He thought the people of British Columbia, if they really
desired union, would be quite satisfied that the Dominion would
construct a railway as rapidly as her resources would admit, and
would not ask for any more. He hoped and believed the House
would confirm the amendment of the member for Lambton.
It being 6 o’clock, the House rose.
____________
AFTER RECESS
Mr. OLIVER resumed the debate arguing that the pacific colony
should be admitted into the Union on the same terms as the other
provinces. He denied that those who favoured the amendment were
opposed to the admission of British Columbia, or even to the
building of the Pacific railway. He favoured these schemes, but
thought we should consider the effect of such a very large
expenditure at the present time. He considered that to allow six
gentlemen from British Columbia to take their seats as representing
only 100,000 people, was unfair to the other parts of the Dominion.
Another feature in the scheme was unfair. The debt of British
Columbia was taken at $1,666,620, which was assumed by the
Dominion. This amounted to $20 odd per head of the population,
whereas in Quebec and Ontario the amount per head of debt
assumed by the Dominion and subsidies was only $2.07. It had
been proposed that thirteen million of acres of lands running
alongside the railway should be appropriated. If so, these lands
would be a constant cause of expenditure for management and
surveying. (Hear, hear.) It would be better that these lands should
remain in the lands of the Local Government of British Columbia;
otherwise they might pass into the hands of land speculators, a state
of things which would prove ruinous to the settlement of the
country. If these lands were not locked up, they would be sufficient
to support a population of two millions, and it would be better that a
money bonus should be given and these lands opened up to the
people for settlement. (Hear, hear.) He believed that the railway
should be prosecuted with energy, and all the money that could be
spared spent upon it. That was the proposition contained in the
amendment before the House. It was the duty of the Finance
Minister in introducing this scheme, which pledged the country to
complete the road in ten years, to tell the House where the money to
build it was to come from. He calculated that our present debt, and
obligations already or soon to be incurred, would amount to
$127,000,000, and if to this were added $100,000,000 for the
Pacific Railway, the amount would be $227,000,000; the interest
per annum would be $11,350,000. He for one was not prepared to
go that length. To do so would injure the present and future
prospects of the Confederation. He would support the amendment.
Mr. MAGILL was in favour of bringing all British North
America into the Union, but on terms equitable and fair to all the
provinces. The terms proposed by the Government were not of that
nature, and if the measure were carried, it would have the effect of
driving immigration from our shores. It was proposed to sap the
very foundations of the constitution which had been framed with
such care and at such a cost. It was too much to expect this colony
with its 13,000 of a population to override our constitution and
create dissensions in this Dominion with its four millions of people.
He protested against the position in which the Government had
placed the House by bringing down this measure, framed by
themselves, without having had the opinion of this House or of the
people of this Dominion on the subject, and say that it should not be
altered in any degree. It was unfair and he, for one, should record
his vote against it. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. COLBY believed that the hon. member for Lambton
expressed the opinion of the whole country when he said that it was
desirable to bring British Columbia into the Union, that it was
expedient to prosecute the construction of the Pacific Railway and
to commence and push it through as soon as the financial condition
of the country would permit it. That was exactly the policy
announced by the Government. They brought down no cast-iron
treaty. No one supposed that if they failed to complete the railway
within the 10 years they would be guilty of a breach of faith. They
proposed to do their best to complete it within that period. All the
opposition which had been offered to this measure now before the
House, had been presented in exactly the same manner as the
opponents to Confederation had fought against the Union in the
past. He would not be surprised if the people of British Columbia
should fail to obtain this union with Canada, if they looked to the
United States for the introduction of capital to open up their
country.COMMONS DEBATES
301
March 30, 1871
Hon. Mr. ANGLIN said this was a matter of too great
importance to be made a party question. He hoped every
member would look upon it in a purely practical light, and
oppose it as a utopian measure brought in by the visionaries who
were hurrying the country to ruin. Looking at the measure on its
merits there was something objectionable in every one of the
clauses. He disapproved of the unfair Parliamentary
representation, giving six members to 13,000 people; to
pensioning officers, and to the payment of $100,000 per annum
to sustain a corrupt and extravagant Government, given, too,
under the pretence that it was rent for public lands. Let the
House know all the meaning of these terms. The Government of
the Dominion were to undertake the construction and
completion, under any contingency, of a Pacific railway within
ten years after the date of the union. Why could not the
Government come forward honestly and friendly and tell the
truth, that they knew it would lay a heavy burden on the
Dominion to carry out this engagement? But no, each member
of the Government tried to make light of the difficulties to be
encountered in the construction of this road.
The Red River expedition, in their march to Fort Garry, had
given evidence as to the nature of the country between the head
of Lake Superior and Red River, and they had proved it to be of
the most sterile character. It was proved to be, for hundreds of
miles, a wilderness of rock, swamp and lake, quite
uninhabitable, and presenting the greatest difficulties to the
construction of a railway. At the Rocky Mountains, fresh
difficulties were to be met, and the British Colonist, a paper
published at Victoria, V.I., favourable to confederation, spoke
of the route through which it was proposed to run the railway, as
a ‘‘sea of mountains.’’ If this account were correct, it would be
difficult to find those vast tracts of fertile country spoken of by
hon. members opposite, and it could be no easy matter to run a
railway through it. With this much known, this House should be
enabled to understand how much of a burden they were
expected to bear, before they were asked to vote for this
measure. He spoke of the resources of the United States as very
superior to those of Canada.
incurred, under which the Dominion would stagger. In addition
to this amount for cost of construction there would be the
working expenses to add to the burden, and the result would be
as described the previous night by the member for Wentworth.
Where was the amount to be obtained? It could not be obtained,
and the obligation was only to be incurred because some few
thousands of people on the Pacific coast were discontented and
would otherwise seek annexation to the United States. The
Statement that the cost incurred would only amount to a million
and a quarter, could not be believed by a single member of the
House. They would pledge themselves to construct the line in
ten years, and who could say that the country would not have to
pay every dollar. A company had been spoken of, but where was
the company? How could any company raise seventy-five
millions of dollars on fifty million acres of barren waste land,
and the Government only played with the House and imposed on
the credulity of their supporters in saying the work would be
done by a railway.
The question should be viewed calmly and dispassionately
and not as a party question, as the Minister of Militia had tried
to make it. The Minister of Customs had imagined a teeming
and prosperous population in British Columbia and the North
West, but were they to base their vote on baseless imaginings.
Where was this population to come from when it was well
known that the population of British Columbia had materially
decreased of late years! It could only be explained by the fact
that the country was not inviting to settlers. It was hard to
persuade settlers to come even to Ontario and the other parts of
the Dominion, and how could it be supposed that a larger
immigration could be directed to these new colonies. The House
had been told that it was bound to construct the railway to the
Rocky Mountains, but he would like to know how, when and
where that obligation was incurred;—they were bound to do
nothing of the kind unless the finances of the country fully
justified it. It had also been stated that although they incurred
the obligation, they would not be compelled to carry it out
unless they chose.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER: We have more in
proportion than they have. You may defend the American
system; we are opposed to it. Hon. Mr. MORRIS said he had stated that the House was not
to be led away, but was to remember that any scheme for
carrying out the work would have to be submitted to it, and that
it would control the whole matter, and those were the facts.
Hon. Mr. ANGLIN said that the proposed debt would take
away Canada’s only advantage over the States, and the policy of
the Government was breaking down all barriers and would
ultimately tend to annexation. He condemned the proposed
expenditure as enormous, and pointed out how a proposition to
incur an amount in England equal, in proportion to her wealth,
would be received, and said it could not be supposed that the
amount could be paid without a greatly increased taxation. He
spoke of the present surplus revenue as very exceptional, and
spoke of the difficulties and deficiencies of former years, and
said that the Minister of Finance himself understood that in the
proposals now before the House, a debt of $100,000,000 was Hon. Mr. ANGLIN resumed that if the representative of
British Columbia honestly considered the interests of his people
he would repudiate the whole Government scheme. Let not the
members believe the statement of any Minister, but let them
read the words of the resolutions themselves, and judge what a
burden they involved, and he believed that if every duty and tax
was doubled the expenditure would not be met, but when the
debt and taxation was then increased, the way to annexation
would well be opened, and he stood there to do what he could to
save the country from the fate, and from the irresistable ruin that
would ensue from this scheme. He implored the House to ignore
party and think of the country.COMMONS DEBATES
302
March 30, 1871
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS had been anxious before speaking
to hear the views of others. He had listened with great attention to
the gentleman who had preceded him, and there could only be one
opinion that the whole tone of his remarks showed opposition to the
acquisition to British Columbia, and opposition to the constructions
of a railway, and the coalition that had taken place on the opposite
side showed only opposition to the cause of union with the Pacific
colonies. He would ask members on both sides to consider the
position of the Government, and he assumed they were all in favour
of Confederation. He desired to call particular attention to the fact
that all proceedings were of the character of negotiations between
two parties, as to the best means of accomplishing an object on
which both were agreed. The Government entered into the
negotiations, and with one or two exceptions the whole House
seemed in favour of the Union with British Columbia and of the
construction of the railway.
He was surprised, however, to hear the member for Gloucester
cheered by the gentleman round him when speaking of ignoring the
whole population except the whites. The remainder of the
population contributed most largely to the revenue, and he could
speak from experience that the Chinese were an exceedingly
valuable class as a duty paying people. The objections of hon.
gentlemen had dwindled down entirely to the matter of the railroad.
The proposition made was that the railway was an absolute
necessity, and that Canada should use every exertion to construct it
at as early a date as possible. In the negotiations that took place, it
was found impossible that Canada could undertake to commence
this railway and make a stated payment annually, and it had never
been understood that the Government themselves should undertake
the work, but that it should be done by means of Companies with a
land grand and money grant. Every calculation had been based on
that understanding.
Mr. MACKENZIE: Give us the calculations.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said it was necessary to give
minute details, and he had already given a rough estimate based on
statements of the most eminent engineers. Hon. gentlemen had
admitted the necessity of the railway, but that had not been the tone
of the member for Gloucester. His views were widely different
from those of the representatives of Ontario. During the course of
the discussion, he could not help thinking of the important
proceedings at Washington, and thinking of those and of the
important negotiations with the delegates from British Columbia, he
was surprised at the cavilling on small matters which had taken
place. The member for Gloucester seemed entirely opposed to the
railway, but that was not the view of the member for Sherbrooke,
who was well known as a promoter of such a railway, and a
believer in its practicability. The Government scheme was a
modification of the propositions of British Columbia, and although
they would not undertake a stated annual expenditure, they fully
admitted the necessity of the construction of the railway.
Mr. SCATCHERD asked whether if the land would not build
the road, the road would not be built.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS said no, he had already stated that
it was estimated that the Dominion would have to pay about a
million and a quarter a year, but it was well understood that if
insurmountable difficulties arose, the Government could not be
supposed to proceed to anything ruinous.
But it was necessary to satisfy British Columbia that Canada was
in earnest in going on with the work, and therefore a time was
specified. No one had answered the argument that the railway was
not entirely a bargain with British Columbia, for if that colony had
not consented to join the Union would not a railway to the Rocky
Mountains still have been a necessity. The negotiations had
necessarily to assume the shape of a Treaty, and in all such matters
concessions had to be made on both sides. The delegates
themselves had been of different opinions, and the result of the
conferences that had taken place was embodied in the resolutions
before the House, and no amendments could be made without
throwing open the whole question. These were questions on which
the people of British Columbia dissented from the terms now
settled, and any amendment would reopen the whole matter. The
matter must be dealt with and accepted or rejected as a whole.
Very many more forebodings had been expressed as to the
financial result of the propositions. The debt of Canada was about
$20 a head and that of America $60 a head, and yet they could
undertake three different lines of road, and he did not think Canada
need have any fear on the matter. As to the debt of $100,000,000
Government had no intention of incurring anything of the sort. Of
course the Government undertook the work in ten years, but if after
doing everything to carry out the engagement in good faith, it
should be found that untoward circumstances should prevent the
completion of the work, could it be supposed that Canada would be
required to proceed to her own serious disadvantage, even if the
work might be delayed for some years? He referred to the strictures
of the member for Wentworth as to the Municipalities Laws, and
shewed that the measure he had proposed had been most generally
supported, and yet he was charged individually with the whole
matter. All that had been done however, was to enable
municipalities to borrow money in their own discretion. He spoke
of what the member for Oxford South had said, as to his departure
from, and return to Canada, explaining the circumstances that had
led to his doing so, denying all charge of inconsistency. He then
continued, they had either to spurn or accept British Columbia, and
the result of the amendment, if carried, would be to do away with
all hope of bringing British Columbia into the Union.
Mr. WORKMAN deprecated any party feelings in the
discussion, the question being one of the utmost importance to the
future of the country. He regretted very much that he would have to
dissent from the Government scheme, which appeared calculated to
damage the country. He was friendly to the completion to
Confederation, notwithstanding. It was his opinion that this railroad
would involve Canada in an expenditure of at least fifty millions.
The cost of this work, the great difficulties natural and other in its
way were reasons for our carefully considering this scheme and its
consequences before rashly embarking in it. He ridiculed theCOMMONS DEBATES
303
March 30, 1871
spread-eagle anticipations and flourishes indulged in respecting this
railway, and particularly the notion that the trade of China and
Japan could be attracted over North America by this trans-
continental road. Any merchant or intelligent man knew that the
products of the East would be damaged by railway carriage, and
that the shipping presented the best means of transportation. It was
all nonsense to attribute to Confederation the credit for the present
prosperity of the country. As to the expectations connected with the
Intercolonial, he believed from reliable information that it would be
a source of expense, trouble and anxiety to us. But at any rate let us
see how it worked before entering upon another and longer railway.
It was bad enough to have one elephant on our shoulders without a
second. In the name of his constituents and of the trade and
commerce of the country he protested against this scheme, which
made him tremble for it; and it was because he thought it would be
ruinous to the Dominion that he would vote against these
resolutions.
Hon. Mr. McDOUGALL (Lanark North) said that although
the debate had extended over three days there were two or three
points to which no reference had yet been made, to which he felt it
his duty to draw attention. He believed that a very large majority of
the members of this House were desirous of seeing British
Columbia united to the Dominion. Some twenty years ago, when he
first entered into public life as a journalist, he had placed on his
political platform as one of its most prominent planks Union of the
British North American Provinces. In 1859 he was present at the
Reform Convention in Toronto when the political condition of the
country was discussed, and on that occasion he moved a resolution
which embodied the principle on which this great scheme was
founded. It received the assent of a majority of that assembly, and
ever since then he had been endeavouring to the best of his ability
to promote and advance this great measure.
Along with hon. members opposite, it had been his good fortune
to help push forward Confederation, and he now accused them of
having failed in the performance of their duty in the final
accomplishment of the work. He said so boldly, looking at it from
no political or party standpoint, and feeling no desire, as might be
the case with some hon. members of the Opposition, to see the
Government displaced from their seats at the present moment if
they would only do their duty. Taking an impartial view of the case,
he must charge them with having struck a fatal blow at the great
measure with which for the last few years they had been connected,
and for the success of which they were pledged to this House and
responsible to the country. They propose, in order to induce, as they
alleged, British Columbia to enter the Union, to load the Dominion
with a debt double that under which the country now suffered,
under which, at all events, it now labored. For the purpose of
accomplishing this Union, no such sacrifice, no such burden, no
such evil consequences were at all necessary. He failed to hear any
decent reason why this Government should, without the authority of
Parliament and without submitting the proposition in any form for
public discussion, spring it on the House as they had done. Under
the constitution, no such authority was delegated to the
Government. No authority was given them, of their own motion, to
enter into, and finally conclude, negotiations which, as the House
was told, must be accepted without qualification of amendment.
Hon. Mr. TILLEY: What did you do at the Quebec conference?
Hon. Mr. McDOUGALL (Lanark North) had expected to hear
this question asked, but he would tell the hon. member that this was
an entirely different case. The Quebec conference was a body of
gentlemen assembled together to discuss the propriety of passing
the law which regulated this very matter. The terms of that law
were publicly discussed in the press and in the various existing
legislative bodies of the several Provinces. It was agreed by them
and alterations were made in accordance with expressions of
opinion at the very last moment in England to meet the difficulties
developed by these discussions. These circumstances were
altogether different from those which surround the present case. In
the Union Act were the ipsissima verba which show how the Union
of the other colonies is to be consummated. The Constitutional Act
points out the parties who are to negotiate. It declares that the
members of this House are one body, and the members of the other
House another body, who are to settle its terms.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said the proper way to bring
in the colony was through the Government of the day. It involved a
pecuniary expenditure, and could not emanate from any other
source.
Hon. Mr. McDOUGALL (Lanark North) said the proposition
which had been under debate for the last three days was not subject
to the ordinary rule. The Government had taken every precaution to
tell the House that this measure was in the nature of treaty, that not
one of its details could be altered, and that it must be accepted as it
was submitted to the House. Now, the meaning of the constitution
was very different. It was only after full consideration in this
Parliament that the measure should be accepted. Of what use was
this debate at all, if the measure must be adopted without
amendment? He would remind the House, that British Columbia
was a Crown colony, with a population principally of miners and
adventurers, and a very small number of permanent settlers. It was
so at the time of Confederation, possibly the population was larger
then. There was no popular representation at that time. This position
did not fail to strike the attention of the Conference. It was the
policy of the Imperial Government, and the four Provinces to
complete the Union and all British America as soon as possible. He
with others at the Conference had contended that it was the duty of
the Imperial Government to bring pressure to bear on its own
officers of British Columbia to submit to reasonable terms in order
to secure Union with Canada. The small number of the inhabitants
did not justify the admission of a colony on more favourable terms
than those offered to the older and more populous Atlantic
Provinces. The circumstances were entirely different and it was
absurd to say that the future destiny of that country was in the hands
of a few adventurers who were mining there. Since Confederation
was agreed upon, the Imperial Government has put it out to their
power to use that effective influence they might have used to secureCOMMONS DEBATES
304
March 30, 1871
proper terms and compel their acceptance by the Government and
people of that colony. He did not believe there was any desire on
the part of the majority of the people of British Columbia to make
demands unreasonable or impracticable. What right had they in
discussing terms with Canada to stipulate for construction of public
works not only inside their own territory, but in the North West
territories or in Ontario? He did not believe the people of that
Colony ever expected that privilege or would have insisted on this
railway on the present conditions. The railway would have three
sections, differing as to character of country, quality of the land and
other features. We know that no person would settle along the
Ontario end of the line stretching to a distance of a thousand miles
between the Ottawa valley and the Lake of the Woods, for it
presented no agricultural or trading advantages to attract settlers.
The middle sections consisted of good land, but had too sparse a
population to afford a business for a railway for many years to
come. Through and beyond the Rocky Mountains the country was
of a nature most difficult for a railway and most discouraging as
regards the prospects of settlement and traffic.
It was absurd and unreasonable then for us to rush into a vast
expenditure for a work of this kind without accurate knowledge of
the country, without surveys, without any means of enabling us to
form a reliable estimate as to its cost. Did the Government, then, in
the absence of any knowledge, that capitalists would undertake this
road, contemplate the construction of the line themselves? Or did
they really intend to delay the completion of the road if serious
difficulties arose, notwithstanding the pledge and promise now
offered British Columbia? If that was the intention of the
Government, why not say so frankly and honestly? All, he thought,
that should be promised or undertaken at present was the
construction of a telegraph and coach road, or at the utmost, of a
railway from Pembina to the Rocky Mountains. In a short time the
American road from the borders of Ontario to Pembina would be
completed, and be as accessible and serviceable to our people as to
themselves. Besides the Government of Canada would shortly
establish a mixed land and water communication from Lake
Superior to Fort Garry, which would provide all the facilities we
needed for the present, perhaps for years. He saw no difficulty,
whatever, in making use of the American road to reach Fort Garry
and the Rocky Mountains. By giving liberal land grants to a
company, and retaining alternate sections of land we might secure a
railway across the plains and promote the rapid settlement of the
fertile belt. Beyond that a good serviceable post road could be
opened to the Pacific coast, realizing all the people of that colony
some short time ago solicited, and accomplishing all the trade and
interest of the Dominion, generally, required.
He was as anxious as any man to see this Confederation
completed; but denied he was therefore bound to accept every
absurd, extravagant scheme proposed professedly with that object,
and not shown to be either necessary or practicable. Was he to be
blamed for hesitating to agree to every wild proposition of this
kind? If we assented to this proposition we should weigh down the
Dominion to a position which would not only excite dissatisfaction
among her own inhabitants, but destroy all confidence in our future
among the people of other nations.
With respect to the political arrangements he considered that the
representatives for so small a number of people was a violation of
the principles laid down in the Union Act, but the evil would be
cured in a few years if the matter was not of serious consequence.
The Manitoba measure had been passed under peculiar
circumstances and was no precedent to sanction the present
violation of the fundamental principles of the constitution, but, as
he had said, the evil would be temporary, and might be conceded to
British Columbia. The same might be said of the money grant,
which, though based on a larger population than really existed, did
not form a serious objection, for it had always been understood that
the small Provinces should be enabled to carry on their Government
and local works and he would be quite ready to vote directly a
sufficient sum to enable British Columbia to meet her expense.
While, however, the matter of the railway stood on its present basis
he had no hesitation in opposing the Government scheme, although
he yielded to no one in his desire to complete Confederation.
He was astonished that Government should have attempted to
impose the condition that no alteration should be made, for the Act
of Union gave to the two Houses of Parliament and to no other
body the right to make any amendment they might deem expedient,
and while the Legislative Council of British Columbia had
discussed every detail of the scheme, he contended that the same
right belonged to the people and Parliament of this Dominion.
Mr. BEATY had received no intimation from his constituents to
oppose the Government scheme, and he believed the general
impression in Ontario was that Confederation could not be
completed without British Columbia. He had every confidence in
the Ministry both in legislation for the present and future, and he
believed the interests of the country would be well cared for by
them. In the matter of Manitoba the people of Ontario had been
warned against the narrow minded Frenchmen, but he maintained
that for every liberty they possessed, civil and religious, they were
mainly indebted to the representatives of Lower Canada. If the
present scheme carried and the railway was constructed
successfully, as he believed it would be, the honour would belong
to the Minister of Militia and his noble band of reformers. The
matter had been fully discussed, and what was the policy—well, his
idea was that the policy was whether the gentlemen of the
Opposition should be allowed to sit on the Government benches.
That was their policy, and they did not care whether the North West
was developed or not. The Government now proposed, however, a
scheme of opening up the country and numbers of emigrants would
come in, instead of leaving for the States as at present, and before
many years elapsed, thousands of emigrants would be attracted if
the Government were allowed to carry out their plans of
development. He looked forward to a great future for Canada on
these grounds, and having every confidence in the resolutions he
should support them, and if he did otherwise, he would think he had
degraded himself.COMMONS DEBATES
305
March 30, 1871
Hon. Mr. DORION said the question had two aspects, the
political and the financial; the latter, however, was much the most
important and had listened to the Government statements on that
head in hope of being able to vote for the resolutions, but the
minister of Finance had been able to give no favourable statement.
He took great care not to give any details, and beyond the assertion
that a cost of $100,000,000 would be practicable, they had heard
nothing. The American lines had been cited as examples, but it had
not been stated that in addition to the land grants an enormous
amount of money had also been granted. The Minister of Finance
ought to be able to state definitely the amount involved so that the
House might not have to make a blind vote, and he regretted the
humiliating proposal of the Minister of Inland Revenue, that after
the pledge had been given it might afterwards be retracted. He
spoke of the heavy obligations the Dominion already sustained, and
maintained that the Union Act provided that the canal system ought
to have been completed before any other responsibilities were
incurred. of Mr. Jones, of Halifax, was put with the following result: Yeas,
63; Nays, 98.
Hon. Mr. TILLEY read the resolution at Quebec to show that
the North West question was to be an express object of
Confederation. Mr. MACKENZIE’S amendment was put with the following
result: Yeas, 67; Nays, 94.
Hon. Mr. DORION said that matter had already been attained.
He had never had, and had not now, any faith in Confederation, but
he had felt in duty bound not to oppose it, but if he were most
anxious for the downfall of Confederation, he could desire for
nothing more than the present scheme to attain that object.
Reverting to the canal improvement, he considered it unjust that the
credit of the country should be pledged to this immense extent
before that canal improvement was completed. He quoted from a
report of Mr. Fleming, characterising the Pacific Railway as a
commercial absurdity and that the maintenance of such a line would
cost eight millions annually, and in fact that it was altogether
impraticable, and stating that a macadamized road to the Rocky
Mountains would require seventeen years for construction, and yet
hon. gentlemen opposite presumed to say that this gigantic work
could be commenced and completed within ten years. What greater
absurdity could be uttered in any intelligent Assembly? If
Confederation must be had in some direction better have it with the
150,000 of Newfoundland and the 100,000 of Prince Edward’s
Island than with the 10,000 of British Columbia, while the
inhabitants in one case were settled, and in the other mere roving
adventurers. He did not admit the necessity of a Canadian Pacific
line, but thought the American lines should be used, and expend the
money rather in opening up the North West by roads. He thought
the four millions of people inhabiting the basin of the St. Lawrence
were entitled to greater consideration than the small population of
British Columbia, and if this large expenditure were to be incurred
rather let it be used in enlarging the canals and so securing the great
trade of the West.
The members were called in at one o’clock and the amendment
Mr. ROSS (Dundas) had ever been desirous of uniting the
Provinces into one compact body, but the scheme was not
perfected, and he thought the amendment he was about to move
would open the way for a better settlement than that proposed in the
resolutions before the House. He felt the country did not properly
understand the question and thought every one should be able to
communicate with his constituents. He proposed in amendment
that, in the opinion of this House the further consideration of the
question be postponed for the present session of Parliament in order
that greater and more careful consideration may be given to a
question of such magnitude and importance to the people of this
Dominion.
The vote on this amendment was as follows: Yeas, 75; Nays, 85.
On the main motion being put,
Hon. Mr. DORION moved in amendment that the speaker do
not now leave the chair, but that it be resolved that, in view of the
engagements already entered into since the Confederation and the
large expenditure urgently required for canal and railway purposes
within the Dominion, this House would not be justified in imposing
on the people of this Dominion the enormous burden required to
build within ten years a railway to the Pacific as proposed by the
resolution submitted to this House. The amendment was lost on the
following division: Yeas, 70; Nays, 91.
The main motion was again put.
Mr. MACKENZIE gave notice that he would move other
amendments in Committee.
Hon. Mr. ANGLIN said the Government had not had a clear
majority of the total number of the House.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said that had all been
present, the Government majority would have been greater.
The main motion was carried and the House went into
Committee on the resolutions. Mr. COLBY in the Chair. The
resolutions passed through Committee and the Committee rose.
The House adjourned at 2 o’clock a.m.COMMONS DEBATES
310
March 31, 1871
AFTER RECESS
BRITISH COLUMBIA
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved the reception of the
report of the Committee of the Whole on certain resolutions
respecting the admission of British Columbia into Union with
Canada.
Such terms argued either insane recklessness on the part of the
Government and their supporters, or a painful want of patriotism,
which would damage the country and the character of the hon.
Minister of Militia. For thirty years to come it would be
unnecessary to construct the greater portion of this line. The only
part of the road which would need to be constructed immediately
was in British Columbia itself. He would be prepared to consider
that as soon as estimates of the cost, &c., should be submitted to
this House. Holding these views, he moved that all the words after
‘‘that’’ be omitted, and the following inserted: ‘‘having regard to
the vast importance of the questions involved in the said
Resolutions, (including the obligation to construct within ten years
the Pacific Railway, the cost of which is estimated to exceed one
hundred millions of dollars), time should be afforded to the people
and their representatives for consultation before coming to a final
decision; and that the consideration of the said Resolutions should,
therefore, be postponed to the next Session.’’
Mr. MACKENZIE said that in the speech of the Hon. Minister
of Militia, the statement had been made that one-third of the land in
British Columbia was fit for agriculture. But it was admitted that
this statement embraced the Island of Vancouver. Now, in dealing
with this question, the Island must not be taken into consideration at
all. From all the evidence he could obtain respecting the main land,
not one-fifth of it was available for settlement by farmers, and the
remaining four-fifths through which the road was likely to run, had
yet to be proved good for mining purposes. It was simply absurd to
put the price of that land at $1 dollar per acre. The Hon. Minister of
Customs, in his speech the other evening, had advocated entering
into an obligation which he could not say the country would be able
to perform. It had been said the other evening over and over again
during the debate, that he (Mr. Mackenzie) had stated that he
regarded the construction of the Pacific Railway as a pressing
political necessity. He denied having made any such a statement.
He would admit, however, that he would be willing to subject the
country to some inconvenience in order to obtain communication
with the Pacific through Canadian territory. He was in favour of
opening up communication immediately through the country lying
between the head of Lake Superior and Red River. From that point
to the Rocky Mountains the way was comparatively easy and quite
clear enough for the use of emigrants passing into the North West
country. On the Pacific slope, there was no doubt that it would be
necessary to expend large sums of money from time to time as the
Financial condition of the Dominion permitted in opening up a
good route to this side of the Rocky Mountains. Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said that he had hoped after
the discussion of the last three days all the arguments against this
measure would have been exhausted, and that he would not be
called upon to speak again. But after the remarks just made by the
hon. member for Lambton, he felt called upon to make some reply.
He was willing to give credit to the hon. members who opposed this
measure, for sincerity. He (Hon. Sir George-É. Cartier) was much
surprised, at the line of argument which they had followed. He was
surprised that the member for Lambton should try to meet such a
great question on the mere ground of cost. He admitted that the
Union was a necessity and that the railway also was a necessity, but
the honorable gentleman objected to be tied down to a specified
time. He objected to being bound to build a line of 2,500 miles in
ten years—but in past years even when the country was new and
with comparatively few resources she had built 2,000 miles in eight
years. Had Canada been ruined by those works, had her agricultural
interests suffered on this account. And in addition to this, Canada
had built the Victoria Bridge at Montreal, itself equal to 500 miles
of railway, and other large bridges in different parts of the country.
Had she suffered from building those works? No.
But this country should not be bound to construct, within so short
a time, such a gigantic work. The Grand Trunk had never yet paid
one per cent on the capital expended on it, though passing through a
well peopled country and having no scarcity of traffic, yet the hon.
gentlemen opposite wished to lead the House to believe that this
Pacific Railway which was to run for 2,500 miles through an
uninhabited wilderness, would be a paying enterprise. We had
unfortunately 200 mile lying between the head of Lake Superior
and Winnipeg, which was an uninhabitable desert. Now, he would
recommend a cheap narrow gauge railway with steamers on the
smaller lakes, as the proper means of communication with the open
prairie extending west of Fort Garry and through which it would be
unnecessary to construct a road for years to come. He considered
this attempt as one of the most foolish things that could be
imagined—and what was it for? In order to get some 10,000 people
into the Union, they were actually agreeing to pay $10,000 a head
on their account. It was true that the G.T.R. proprietors were not receiving so good
a return as he would like. If the railway was practicable at all, every
one would admit that it could well be built in ten years. If there had
been any complaint it should have been that the time allowed was
too long. When it had been proposed to extend the Customs Laws
of Canada to Manitoba, it had been objected to as unfair, and that
the people of that country were beyond the circle of Canada, and
therefore a delay of three years had been allowed until the countries
could be more effectively joined and connected. Let the member for
Lambton and his friends read their speeches on the North West
question. Then no expense was too great, no haste too much, no
trouble too great, if only the North West could be acquired, but now
they said don’t go so fast. He wanted to get hold of the Red River
country at any cost, and now from the very same mouth that had
spoken of the fertility of the North West, they heard the very
opposite. He had then been willing to send any number of men to
obtain possession of the country.COMMONS DEBATES
311
March 31, 1871
Mr. MACKENZIE had stated his willingness to send any
number of men not to acquire the country, but to establish the
supremacy of law over insurrection.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER resumed the comparison of
the expressions of the member for Lambton last year, and this, then
he had stated distinctly that the acquisition of the North West would
be the only way to obtain British Columbia, but now he did not
want the Union.
Mr. MACKENZIE denied this; he was as much in favour of
Union as ever.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said the member for
Lambton had stated distinctly that in swallowing the Quebec
scheme he had made a mistake, and now the great Reformer of
Upper Canada, the representative of everything good, the
representative of the great Party of Progress, said no, we must pull
up, we must stop. The Government were really the Party of
Progress and action, and the member for Lambton, and those who
had followed him would at the next election be taken to task by
their constituents for having in order to make a case against the
Government made the humiliating confession that they had made a
mistake in accepting the scheme of Confederation. The member for
Lambton in his argument had said that between Thunder Bay and
Fort Garry there was no soil and the railway could not be built but
that question could be settled by Parliament hereafter, when the
railway scheme should be submitted.
Mr. MACKENZIE: What about the obligations?
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said, suppose the hon.
gentleman undertook an obligation, could he be obliged to fulfil it,
if he should be prevented by unforeseen circumstances. No one
could be compelled to perform an impossibility. The time was too
long, and the objection could only come from an economical
Scotchman, and he would predict that in a very few years the hon.
gentleman would be one of the most ardent supporters of the
railway. He had not been sorry to lose his motion yesterday, and he
was not sincere in his present proposal. That proposal was to entail
a delay of seven months; what object could there be in so doing?
The matter had already been discussed sufficiently, and the time
was now come for settlement, and he would say that without the
prospect of British Columbia, they would never have persuaded a
majority of the House to consent to acquire one inch of the North
West. For the sake of the member for Lambton himself he trusted
his speech would not be well reported, and especially that part in
which he had spoken of the character of the land in most
disadvantageous terms, and yet he said he was in favour of building
a railway as soon as possible. If the land was as described by the
hon. member, why should a railway be built at all? He reiterated 10
years was too long, and as to the mode of building the railway that
would all be submitted to Parliament, and within the next few days
the Government would ask for an appropriation for the preliminary
survey. He maintained that Canada was better able to-day to
undertake the Pacific railway than she had been years ago to
advance fifteen millions to the Grand Trunk. The whole affair of the
hundred millions was a bugbear. There was no such thing as
incurring that debt in a few years—it was an absurdity to make such
a statement.
The policy was purposely to retain the lands of the country in
order to build railways and open ways of communication. Canada
would not have to bear the expenditure alone. British Columbia
would be represented in the House, and would be equally interested
in the work. Speaking of the cost of the railway, he maintained the
gentlemen on the other side had played the parts of old nurses, but
the children on his side of the House were not so easily frightened.
He spoke of the North Pacific, quoting from a statement showing
the whole length to be 2,000 miles, and the entire estimated cost
seventy-six million dollars in greenbacks. It had been objected that
the estimate for the Canadian Pacific might not be correct. He
admitted that, but the argument worked both ways. The cost might
prove very much below the estimate, and an immense amount of
land was reserved to cover it. He quoted a statement showing the
average cost of railway communication in the United States,
showing 2,600 miles of line in operation, the average cost being, in
the different States, from $25,000 to $33,000 per mile. It was
admitted that there was a large extent of prairie land to be crossed,
and the smaller expenditure necessary there would leave means to
overcome difficulties in other portions. The hon. members opposite
had been sufficiently unpatriotic to represent the country as that it
would never attract immigration, and he quoted from the
proceedings of the House of Representatives of the State of
Minnesota speaking of the Canadian line as practicable, and the
territories of the North West and British Columbia, as fertile, and
the most valuable of the Continent; and yet men in this country, the
leaders of their party, did their utmost to decry their country.
Mr. MACKENZIE denied that he had done anything to decry
the country.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER was glad he had given the
hon. member an opportunity to correct himself. He quoted from an
article from an American paper, copied into the Globe
characterising the Saskatchewan country as most valuable in soil
and minerals, and British Columbia as possessing rich mineral
resources, magnificent climate and fine soil. It was fortunate that
the truth could be ascertained even if it came from opponents. The
Government had stated again and again that they themselves would
not build the railway, but that it would be constructed by
Companies assisted by such subsidies as would not oppress the
people. It was absurd to speak of building a line to the Rocky
Mountains only, a vote could not be obtained for such a purpose,
but when it was proposed to extend the line to the ocean, the
question assumed a very different aspect. Many great works had
been accomplished in England, but what were any compared with
the scheme now proposed, and he could say that already there
was a motion in England to assist the measure, and there would
doubtless be capitalists to take the matter in hand, and
everything was in favor of the successful construction of the
road. The Minister of Justice had telegraphed him to present his
congratulations to his friends on the vote of yesterday.COMMONS DEBATES
312
March 31, 1871
Mr. BLAKE said the member for Lambton (Mr. Mackenzie)
in his amendment had pointed out the importance of the matter
the grave nature of the burden proposed to be incurred, and
therefore suggested the postponement of the consideration of
the matter, and it was impossible to answer those statements.
Much had been heard that the railway would not cost the
Dominion in cash $100,000,000, but no one attempted to deny
that the railway would cost that amount and where could the
money come from but from the resources of the country. It
might be in lands and it might be in money, but the result was
the same, and the only argument the Minister of Militia had
used was to speak of the American lines and contrast
greenbacks with gold. He complained of the system of alternate
sections not being followed in land grants. The argument
seemed to be that they would not be compelled to perform
impossibilities, but an honest man would fulfil an obligation,
though the result might be bankruptcy. If rashly the national
credit and faith were pledged to build that road in ten years, he
said that any one who voted for that obligation with the mental
reservation that they would not be compelled to fulfil the
obligation unless such should be desirable was a base man. The
spirit and the letter of the bond were alike binding, and the
question was most serious.
The Bill was not one that could be repealed but was an
irrevocable determination to build the road in ten years
whatever the hazard, whatever the results, and should they not
seek to communicate with their people before arriving at this
irrevocable determination. It had been urged in order to secure
votes that there was a reserve power of repudiation, but if the
obligation was undertaken, the people would hold themselves
bound by it, and could gentlemen be prepared to meet an
indignant people if they incurred this responsibility without
consulting those they represented, and if the gentlemen did so
act, though they might go back to their people, they would not
come back to that House. The question was whether the debt of
the country should, at a stroke, be doubled, or whether they
should have an opportunity of consulting their people before
taking such a step. They had been urged to haste, but he
maintained that there had been too much haste in bringing
about Confederation already, and he was not anxious to ruin
entirely that portion of the scheme which had been too hastily
consummated. He had not heard what harm could result from
postponement and as to the argument that British Columbia was
hanging in the balance, he would say that while England was
true to herself, the result did not lie with British Columbia, and
therefore time for consideration should not be refused.
Hon. Mr. TILLEY said it was a great advantage to be able to
hear both sides of a question, but he could see no very great
difference in the proposition of the Government and the
amendment proposed. The hon. member for Lambton after his
defeat last night was obliged to adopt the more successful stand
which had been taken by the hon. member for Dundas. There
was no talk about the necessity of this delay from the hon.
gentleman opposite before this evening. It was all very well to
ask for this delay now, but the scheme had been before the
people and had been discussed in the papers for months. The
terms were published in Toronto papers three months ago, and,
in fact, the Union had been talked of ever since the
commencement of the Confederation. In reply to the arguments
of the hon. members opposite, he said that a grant of $10,000
per mile in addition to the land grant would place the
construction of the railway beyond the possibility of a doubt.
There could be no difficulty in disposing of the lands at a fair
price. The fertile belt was spoken of by the American writers
who had visited it, as being of immense extent and of great
fertility. The Northern Pacific railway looked to it for a portion
of their future trade. It was, therefore, in the interest of this
Dominion to construct a road through our own territory to the
Pacific.
Hon. Mr. McDOUGALL (Lanark North) said the House
should not be led away by claptrap speeches from the hon.
gentleman opposite. Let them look at the facts. Here was a
statement of Mr. Hind, an officer appointed by this Government,
who explored the North West, and submitted his report thereon.
This gentleman stated that in the whole of the fertile belt there
were not 40,000,000 acres of available land. Taking a fertile belt
in the Rocky Mountains which was not mentioned in that report,
to contain 10,000,000 acres more, there were but 50,000,000
acres of any commercial or exchangeable value, in the North
West. Where then were the Government lands to come from
after granting large sections to the railway? The experience of
the United States had shown that it was not in the interest of a
country to grant its unsettled lands in large blocks to private
companies. The proposition before the House was to give all the
valuable lands of the North West to a company which was not
yet formed. After the experience of English capitalists on
Canadian railways, it was not likely that capital could be got to
construct this railway. The money must be had in some way
even at the risk of involving the Dominion in ruin. In reply to
the statement of the Hon. Minister of Customs that this question
had been before the public for some time, he would refer the
hon. gentleman to the files of papers in the reading room. If he
would look at them he would see that the country was startled at
the gigantic proportions of this scheme. On the 27th of that
month, the ipsissima verba of the scheme were presented to this
House, and that was the first time the public had an opportunity
of passing judgment on it. It was only after it was taken up and
discussed in this House the other day, that it might be said to
have been placed before the people. Could the hon. gentleman
then deny that delay should be granted before passing this
measure. It had not been presented to the House in the
constitutional manner and it was only right to give the people an
opportunity to express their approval or disapproval of it.
The amendment was put and lost on the following division: Yeas,
7; nays, 135.
Mr. BODWELL moved in amendment to leave out all the words
after ‘‘that’’ and insert the following: ‘‘That the proposed terms ofCOMMONS DEBATES
313
March 31, 1871
Union with British Columbia provide for its representation in the
Senate by three Members, and in the House of Commons by six
Members, while its population is about 10,000, and such
representation in the House of Commons is enormously in excess of
the proper number according to population, and is in violation of
the fundamental principle of the fact between the Provinces, a
principle which ought not to be disturbed without the assent of the
Provinces, and that the said Resolutions be referred back to a
Committee of the Whole for the purpose of reducing the number of
representatives of British Columbia in the House of Commons.”
Mr. JONES (Leeds North and Grenville North) said though
both sides deprecated the party considerations, he had never heard a
question made so completely one of party. He did not think the
country was in a position to undertake the expenditure proposed. He
considered the Imperial Government ought to share in the expense
of any scheme for opening up the North West. He maintained that
the country was not suitable for settlement, or the present
population would have been much larger. He objected to the
Indians being taken into account, as they had done but little good to
Canada. He was in favor of the consideration of the matter being
postponed and should vote for the amendment.
Mr. BOLTON in explaining the reference made to him by the
Minister of Customs, said he had not charged him with making
reckless statements, but that while giving him and the Government
every credit for being in earnest in desiring to construct the road, he
thought it very doubtful whether a company would be found to
undertake it.
Mr. MACKENZIE’S amendment was then put, and the
following vote taken: Yeas, 68; nays, 85.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT believe that the Government had been led
into the inconceivable blunder of naming a period for the
construction of the road and the amendment he was about to
propose differed from others in these respects, it did not interfere
with the pledge to commence the railway, and only pledged that
they would use their utmost exertions to go on with the work as fast
as practicable, and it need involve but a very short delay. He moved
that the eleventh paragraph should be amended by inserting the
words ‘‘use their utmost exertions’’ after the word ‘‘further.’’
Mr. KILLAM then moved in amendment to the amendment,
that the words ‘‘while its population is about 10,000’’ be struck out.
Mr. KILLAM’S amendment was rejected on the following
division: Yeas, 43; nays 100.
Mr. BODWELL’S amendment was then put, and the vote
resulted as follows: Yeas, 58; nays, 87.
Mr. BLAKE moved in amendment to leave out all the words
after ‘‘that’’ and insert the following: ‘‘The proposed terms of
Union with British Columbia provide for the payment by the
Dominion to British Columbia of a yearly sum of $100,000 in
perpetuity (equal to a capital sum of $2,000,000) for the cession of
a tract of waste land on the route of the proposed Pacific Railway to
aid in its construction, while any such land required for that purpose
should be ceded without charge in like manner as the lands of the
Dominion are to be so ceded, and that the said Resolutions be re-
committed for the purpose of amending the same in accordance
with this Revolution.’’
The amendment was put and the vote was as follows:—Yeas, 59;
nays, 84.
The first, second, and third resolutions were carried.
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved that an address,
embodying the said resolutions be presented to Her Majesty and
that a Select Committee, composed of Messrs. Tilley, Morris,
Tupper, Chauveau, Ferguson, Savary, and the mover be appointed
to draft such address.—Carried.
The Committee presented the draft address, which was received
and read a first time, to be read a second time, at the next Session of
the House.
The House adjourned at 1.45 a.m.COMMONS DEBATES
315
April 1, 1871
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Saturday, April 1, 1871
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 o’clock.
_______________
Prayers
_______________
AFTER ROUTINE
Mr. CURRIER introduced a Bill to incorporate the Dominion
Construction Co. The Bill was read a first time and referred to the
Committee on Miscellaneous Private Bills.
* * *
INSURANCE ACT
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINKS moved the second reading of the
Bill respecting Insurance companies.
Mr. BLAKE objected to the measure, as limiting the class of
securities to be deposited with the Government. He also objected to
establishing a system of inspection.
Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS assured the hon. member that
there was no disposition to limit the class of securities, but, on the
contrary, to relieve companies of the necessity of depositing cash
with the Government.
The Bill was read a second time and referred to the Committee
on Banking and Commerce.
* * *
BRITISH COLUMBIA
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER moved the second reading of
the Address to Her Majesty for the union of British Columbia with
the Dominion.
Mr. MACKENZIE did not propose to reply to the speeches of
the hon. members opposite delivered last night. They extended over
a good space of time, but there was nothing in them. He merely
wished to enter his protest against the extraordinary address now
about to be read a second time. He, therefore, moved the following:
“Resolved that this House, while willing to give its best
consideration to any reasonable terms of union with British
Columbia, is of opinion that the terms embodied in the said address
are so unreasonable, and so unjust to Canada, that this House
should not agree thereto.”
Hon. Mr. TUPPER said he had not taken any part in the debates
on this subject so far. He had listened with mingled pain and
pleasure to the speeches of hon. members. He had heard with pain
old friends of Confederation opposing this union movement. He
defended the policy of the Government at considerable length,
arguing that everything conspired to favor the construction of the
Pacific Railway. While the United States had to contend against
great natural difficulties in pushing their railways to the Pacific, the
territory through which the Canadian route would lie, was of great
natural fertility, and presented comparatively few engineering
difficulties to the construction of a railway. It gave us a pass
through the Rocky Mountains 2,000 feet lower than the best pass
through that chain on American territory. The hon. member for
Lambton had endeavored to show that the route from Nipissing to
Fort Garry was an almost impassable wilderness. Only last session
the hon. member had taken a very different view of the question
and had stated that the very best route to the west lay through
Canadian territory North of Lakes Huron and Superior. The hon.
gentleman could not say that he had heard anything to present the
matter in a different light. There were then, all these favourable
circumstances to aid this great enterprise, but in addition to all that,
the route once opened would place Canton and Liverpool 1,000
miles nearer than by any other line of communication that could be
found. The hon. member had pleaded for delay in order to submit
this question to the people, but the hon. gentleman had taken the
ground on a former occasion that Parliament, representing the
people, could act for them in a case like this.
Mr. MACKENZIE said this was a very different matter. When
the Confederation scheme was first mooted he (Mr. Mackenzie)
went before his constituents and presented the matter to them in
twenty speeches held in different parts of his constituency and told
them that if they were not favourable to Confederation they might
elect some one who would oppose it in Parliament, he would not.
Hon. Mr. TUPPER admitted that the honourable member for
Lambton was an important member of the House, and honoured the
intelligent electors who sent him to Parliament, but he did not
represent the whole people, and the Confederation scheme was not
submitted to the country generally. But this question had been
submitted to the people of British Columbia and the terms had been
accepted by them. It was not new to the people of Canada. Six
months ago the Toronto Globe had published the terms and theyCOMMONS DEBATES
316
April 1, 1871
had appeared in other leading papers. No objections were urged
against them that he had heard of, till now. He did not believe the
people were so wanting in intelligence that they would silently
submit to terms which did not meet their approval without
protesting against them. When a small question of duties came
before this Parliament, the people who disapproved of them
petitioned against them, and the Press generally discussed the
question very thoroughly. It was absurd, therefore, in the face of
these facts to say that the people were taken by surprise on this
question, or that the scheme met with their disapproval. But if this
House had accepted the position which the hon. members of the
opposition wished to force the country into, they would bring
discredit on this country which would probably be fraught with
consequences which might be irreparable.
The hon. member for Sherbrooke had raised a question as to how
far this enterprise lay within our means. The hon. member had done
better justice to the position of the Dominion in a former speech in
which he had depicted the prosperity which Confederation had
brought upon the country. It showed that the hon. member who first
presented Confederation in a tangible shape, in the year 1858, had
spoken with prophetic zeal when he referred to it as the great means
of elevating them, not only in the political, but in the financial and
commercial scale. The friends of Union might proudly point to the
present position of the Dominion as irrefragable proof of the
correctness of that statement for the prophecy had been more than
realized. The Confederation was but a movement of yesterday, and
the result already was a large surplus in the treasury after meeting
all the Dominion engagements that the necessities of the Local
Governments required, but the Government of this Dominion could
come down, and not only point to the prosperity of every one of its
component parts, but, at the same time, show that this Dominion
had entered on a career of financial prosperity hitherto unknown to
Canada. If this had been the result in the past, what might we not
expect in the future? Two years ago the hon. member for
Sherbrooke, in his criticism on the budget speech, had complained
of what was not in it, rather than of what it did contain, and had said
that some provision should have been made for opening up the
North West. He (Hon. Mr. Tupper) thought the Government
deserved credit rather than censure for having adopted the
suggestion.
In reply to the objections of the hon. member for Lambton about
the cost of the proposed railway, he referred to the fact that its
construction would be undertaken by a private company. No one
had disputed the necessity of providing means of communication
with the North West in order to settle it, yet hon. gentlemen
opposite complained that large grants of land should be made to any
company undertaking the construction of a railway. Yet it was only
by means of a railway that the country could ever be settled, and the
Dominion could give infinitely better land for the purpose than the
United States had offered or could now offer to American
companies. The reservation of large blocks of lands, which would
be greatly enhanced in value through the construction of this
railway, would enable the Government to cover largely any outlay
they should be called on to make. Confederation had changed the
whole story of financial deficit, and had enabled the Government
the other day, partly without their consent, to reduce the taxation of
the country by $1,000,000—thus, too, at a time when they were
constructing the Intercolonial and other kindred works and
preparing to improve the canal system of the country—without
embarrassing the Government. He believed, also, that if this railway
were built, the Northern Pacific road would either be abandoned or
become a branch of the Canadian Pacific. It could never compete
with our line, running as it did through a much less fertile country
than our North West, and lying between our line and the Central
Pacific route.
This union was a question of such magnitude, when regarded in
the ligtht of the status it was going to give to this Dominion that it
naturally tempted him to descant upon it. He believed God and
nature had placed it in the power of this Parliament to take up this
question and give us advantages in connection with becoming the
great highway of communication, not only across this continent, but
between Europe and Asia. The Government would be recreant to
their trust if they failed to meet the wishes of this country as
expressed by the majority in this Parliament and carry it forward to
a successful issue.
Mr. SCATCHERD was surprised to find that in the debate on
the present question there was less enthusiasm than was shown on
the first scheme of Confederation. He complained that only one
party to this compact, the people of British Columbia had had an
opportunity of pronouncing on this subject, while the greater party
of the people of Canada had received no such opportunity. Already
we had the Intercolonial Railway on our hands, for which we had
had to submit to increased expenditure and taxation. Yet we were
told that a larger and more difficult work would not add to our
burdens. A more monstrous and unreasonable proposition was
never urged than this vast road could be built without increasing the
burdens of the people. He held that Confederation so far had not
proved the success predicted. In various sections there were
jealousy, ill-feeling and discontent in relation to this Union and
three sections, Nova Scotia, Quebec and Manitoba might be cited in
support of his theory that Confederation had not been very
satisfactory. He saw no difference between the position of the
minority in 1865, and that of the minority now. The conduct of the
Government was as unreasonable and arbitrary now as then. He
believed this scheme would but add to difficulties and taxation on
the country, and that its ill effects would be felt for 50 years.
Holding these opinions he would vote for the amendment.
Hon. Mr. HUNTINGTON said he was prepared and desirous to
see this scheme of Confederation carried to a magnificent success,
and that he was prepared to go quite as far as the hon. member for
Cumberland, or indeed any one, in the great scheme of
Confederation, but while he claimed credit for earnestly and
sincerely entertaining the desire to consummate successfully that
great scheme, he could not shut his eyes to the fact that,
Confederation was not a machine that would run without winding,
but that it contained many details which from time to time required
serious consideration. When the Dominion Parliament had firstCOMMONS DEBATES
317
April 1, 1871
assembled, the obligations of the country had been largely
increased, and now all at once the whole debt of the country was to
be doubled. Surely this was a serious matter, and even the Hon.
Minister of Militia had termed it a ‘‘big job’’ though he had
afterwards tried to make it a very little job. It was useless to say that
the country would not be expected to accomplish impossibilities,
and that no burden would be added to the people, for when they had
entered into a compact, they must carry out their promise, and when
they went to England to raise money they would find this obligation
considered a charge on the credit of the country. Notwithstanding
the glowing terms in which the grandeur of Confederation had been
depicted, the fact still remained that the debt had first been
increased fifty per cent and now it was sought to be doubled.
He maintained, however, that the measure of Confederation had
been carried, not by the Government but in consequence of the
loyal respect of the people for the policy of the Imperial
Government which was known to favor the scheme, and now the
Government was breaking away if not from Imperial policy at least
from Imperial aid, in proposing to carry out the work of
communication alone and unassisted. If it had been the duty and the
policy of the Imperial Government to aid the construction of the
Intercolonial Railway it was a hundred fold their duty and policy to
aid the construction of the Pacific, and he would ask the
Government for what reasons they had absolved the Imperial
Government from all duties in the work of consolidating British
power on this continent. He referred to rumours which he said had
been greatly influenced by the presence of Capitalists and
Contractors who were opposed to the Northern Pacific Railway, and
who thought that if the Canadian Government would decide
definitely to construct the Canadian line, it would operate strongly
against the Northern Pacific, and said he could not but think that
those rumours had gained weight by the utterance of the President
of the Council that if the Canadian line was constructed the
Northern Pacific would never get beyond Red River. That hon.
gentleman had also urged as a reason for hurry in this matter, that if
they did not hasten to accept the terms proposed, British Columbia
might exact conditions still more difficult, but such an argument
was absurd.
British Columbia was a Crown colony, and if it were really, the
policy of the Imperial Government, to consolidate British power on
this continent, though every man in that colony might be in favor of
annexation, their power to bring about such a result would be as
light as a feather, it would be as nothing. If ever the British
possessions on this Continent should become part of the United
States, it could only be at the cannon’s mouth, and as the
consequence of the total ruin and prostration of British power on
this continent. The same reason for hurry had been urged in the
discussion on Confederation, and he very much deprecated it as
tending very much to unsettle the minds of the people.
These great questions should be discussed solely on their merits
without the fulmination of insincerities in regard to alternatives that
might ensue in case of the scheme being rejected. He had no doubt
that many, hon. gentleman, had been writing to their constituents
speaking of the wonderful benefits of Confederation as evinced in
their being no longer a deficiency in the revenue, but a surplus of
two millions, and he could not but commiserate them in having now
to write that that surplus of two millions had disappeared to be
replaced by a debt of one hundred millions.
Mr. RYMAL had hoped that the Government would have been
forced to explain in what way the money for the railway was to be
raised. He ventured to say that the Minister of Finance was not
properly performing the functions of his office, in failing to explain
fully the financial aspect of the matter. He feared nothing he could
say would change one single vote, but he was convinced that if the
question had been one of policy and not of party, the resolutions
would never have been carried. Richelieu had said that many
persons who, as private members might be saved, were in great
danger of being damned for having wandered into public life, and if
Richelieu had lived in these days and uttered those words, he (Mr.
Rymal) would have been quite sure that his eyes were fixed on the
gentlemen of the Canadian Government.
Mr. THOMPSON (Ontario North) desired to explain why he
should support the amendment, which was because no explanation
had even been attempted as to how so large a debt as that proposed
could be incurred without crippling most seriously the resources of
the country.
Mr. MACKENZIE’S amendment was then put with the
following result: Yeas, 68; Nays, 86.
On the amendment being declared lost,
Hon. Sir A.T. GALT rose and said, it might be considered that
the address was practically carried, but he desired before the final
passage, to place on record an explanation of the terms under which
the address was understood to be adopted. The Government had
stated as a reason why these terms should be accepted, that it was
not their intention to undertake the whole cost of the railway out of
the money reserves of the Dominion, but that they proposed to do it
through the intervention of companies to whom they would be
prepared to give subsidies of land and money, and further that this
was the understanding between themselves and the delegates from
British Columbia. He therefore moved: That the word ‘‘now’’ be
left out, and the words ‘‘on Monday next, and that meantime it be
Resolved, That in accepting the terms of Union with British
Columbia, this House understands that the engagement for the
construction of the Pacific Railroad within ten years is subject to
the understanding had between the Government of the Dominion
and the Commissioners from British Columbia that the said
Railroad should be constructed through the medium of private
Companies, receiving subsidies in money and land, and that it was
not intended to pledge the Dominion beyond the application of its
money and resources to the loyal and earnest prosecution of the
work, without entailling undue and excessive burdens upon the
people.’’COMMONS DEBATES
318
April 1, 1871
Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER said this amendment was
equally objectionable with the others that had been moved to
prevent to passing of the address, and he would announce to the
House, and to the hon. member for Sherbrooke, that the
Government intended and determined that this great railway should
be carried out by companies and not by the Government, and
through the means principally of land grant and small money
subsidies, and further that early in the ensuing week, the
Government would place before the House a resolution by which to
take the sense of the House with regard to the manner in which that
Railway should be built, and he might announce beforehand that the
determination of the Government was that, when the sense of the
House had been so taken, they would carry it out more prudently
with regard to the Exchequer of the country than was proposed in
the amendment of the hon. member for Sherbrooke.
Mr. MACKENZIE said that the terms of the amendment were
so general that he was not prepared to vote for it.
Mr. BLAKE said he must oppose the amendment not only for
the reason named by the hon. member for Lambton, but because he
considered that no action could put an interpretation on the terms
other than that they literally contained.
Mr. BOWELL said his great objection to the amendment was
that it did not go far enough for it would not prevent the
Government from carrying on the Railway after its construction.
The amendment was lost, the vote being—Yeas, 7; Nays, 126.
The main motion was then carried and the address read a second
time, and on the motion of Hon. Sir GEORGE-É. CARTIER the
address was ordered to be engrossed, and a motion for an address to
His Excellency, praying His Excellency to transmit the address to
Her Majesty the Queen was carried; the address to His Excellency
was ordered to be engrossed, and to be presented by such members
of the House as belonged to the Privy Council.
It being six o’clock the House rose.
____________
AFTER RECESS
The following Private and Local Bills were read a second and
third time and passed:—
An Act to comprise in one Act the financial affairs of the Great
Western Railway Company, as amended by Standing Committee on
Railways, Canals and Telegraph Lines.—Hon. Mr. CAMERON
(Peel).
An Act concerning the Vandreuil Railway Company, as amended
by Standing Committee on Railways, Canals and Telegraph lines.—
Mr. SHANLY.
An Act to incorporate the Metropolitain Bank, as amended by
Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce.—Mr.
WORKMAN.
An Act to incorporate the Western Bank, as amended by
Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce.—Mr. KILLAM.
* * *
SUPPLY
On the motion of Hon. Sir FRANCIS HINCKS to go into
Committee of Supply,
Hon. Mr. HOLTON called the attention of the Government to
the manner in which a certain parcel of land belonging to the
Dominion was leased to the Montreal Warehousing Company. The
history of the land was this: In 1865 Government purchased from
private parties in Montreal a lot of land adjoining the canal basin,
on the recommendation of Mr. Allan, for the purpose of increasing
the wharfage and shed accommodation there. For this lot the
Government paid the sum of $25,000. The Warehousing Co.,
through Mr. Brydges, made application to Government for the
purchase of the lot subsequent to confederation of the Provinces,
but on the advice of the officers of the Public Works Department,
the Government refused to sell it. On the 19th July, 1870, the hon.
the Minister of Militia, in the absence of the Minister of Public
Works, and acting for that minister, reported to the Council in favor
of granting the lease of this lot to the Warehousing Company for a
term of 21 years with an annual rental of $700, that being
considered less than simple interest on one half the cost. This report
was made to the Privy Council without being supported by any of
the professional gentlemen connected with the Department. One of
the conditions, however, was that the Government might resume
possession of the property on giving three months’ notice, on
condition of paying for any building that might be erected thereon,
subsequent to the lease of the property. He, therefore, moved an
amendment to the motion to go into Committee of Supply, reciting
the facts above stated, and resolving ‘‘that this House is of opinion
that it is the duty of this Government to take immediate steps to
resume possession for public uses, of the said lot of ground.’’
Hon. Mr. LANGEVIN said he would take the full responsibility
of the transaction on himself. He had no desire to shield himself
behind the Minister of Militia in this matter. The action in the
matter was taken while he (Hon. Mr. Langevin) was absent, but it
was with his entire approval. What he had to complain of was that
the hon. member for Châteauguay had not gone farther back in the
history of this affair. The hon. member knew quite well that in order
to arrive at the true position of affairs, it was necessary to go back
further than 1865. In 1851 the Government of the day offered for
